BANKING 1:
Security in Banking: Are You Facing the Right DirectioN

Bigstock
Share Security in Banking: Are You Facing the Right Direction? on TwitterShare Security in Banking: Are You Facing the Right Direction? on FacebookShare Security in Banking: Are You Facing the Right Direction? on LinkedIn
The financial industrys increasing dependence on advanced technologies has two major implications. First, the financial companies that adopt these technologies are able to leverage new and improved services, solve legacy issues and introduce competitive differentiation as a result. Second, the increased complexity of these systems creates more potential weak spots for cybercriminals to exploit. It also drives up the cost required to adequately research, develop and deliver these advanced technologies and services to customers.
Managing these intricacies and associated risks is the key to improving the state of security in banking. A security leaders main priority is to keep attackers from gaining entry to the organizations IT ecosystem and wreaking havoc. With any breach, the potential for loss of data, trust and revenue is high, and it can dent overall reputation as well.
The regulatory bodies charged with keeping the industry secure are essential to prevent potentially unsafe expansion or activity. However, regulators are often unable to move fast enough when it comes to data protection.
Compliance Does Not Equal Security
While regulatory compliance is important, a compliant system is not necessarily a secure system. Those in charge of securing financial organizations should work with industry peers and IT partners to identify threats and establish holistic, risk-based approaches to dealing with them.
Its also important to recognize the tension between the technical and business sides of the organization. Consider which tools must be implemented to address risk and comply with regulations in the context of the IT budget. All sides must be sensitive to each others concerns.
Keep Your Ear to the Ground
Computers and security systems have been developed to recognize, detect and prevent viruses, malware and other harmful pieces of software. While these systems are incredibly accurate, they are no longer enough. Security teams need more advanced systems that can learn to recognize patterns in data and identify subtle changes in attack code designed to evade traditional monitoring systems.
Banking organizations should ensure they have advanced analytical and interpretive powers overseeing all relevant data security events. These efforts will help detect and prioritize the threats that pose the greatest risk to the industry and specific organization, allowing security personnel to take effective action and identify the items that need immediate attention. This can be achieved either through in-house security technology deployment or by contracting a third party to manage the security monitoring for the business.
Get Your Head in the Cloud
Many leaders in the traditionally risk-averse finance industry are wary of the risks associated with cloud adoption. However, there is no reason why cloud should be any less secure than an on-premises data hub. It all depends on the organizations security policies and regulatory requirements, and how these can be mapped to the cloud environment.
Cloud adoption can drive agility and reduce costs for banking institutions. It can also help improve protocols for security in banking. As threats in this area continue to escalate, a single bank can only see what happens inside its own network. But it can strengthen its defensive posture by collaborating with other banks, regulators and government agencies to understand the full threat picture.
Banks can also enable the exchange of relevant threat information and speed up defense capabilities by partnering with dedicated security services. A partner overseeing threats across the globe can, for example, warn a bank in Germany of an attack unfolding in Korea. This allows the German bank to get a jump on defensive preparations before attackers have a chance to strike.
The Future of Security in Banking
The future of security in banking lies in the development and adoption of advanced cognitive security functions. These systems can harness not just data, but also meaning, knowledge, process flows and progression of activity at a lightning-fast speed. Cognitive security can put banks ahead of threat actors in terms of speed, collaboration and access to data structures.
Cognitive technology enables security analysts to collect information rapidly and provides the support they need to thwart attacks before the damage is done. But shifting the balance of power requires a shift in the overall approach to security in banking. Banks must ensure their systems are more than compliant, become comfortable with cloud technologies and implement cognitive computing to keep up with the evolving threat landscape. The industry is not entirely there yet, but its facing the right direction.
For more on the state of security in banking, watch this IBM Masterclass video interview I did with The Banker, “Cybersecurity Beyond Compliance.”

BANK:
How Banks Can Improve Cyber Security
June 23, 2017 By Josh Eklow
Every bank needs to make cyber security a top priority to keep internal systems safe from exploitation. User device identities must be well-managed, along with access to trusted services. Bank and IT officials must work together and take a proactive approach to blocking cybercriminals, which continue to pose threats to privacy, financial protection, and company stability. Here are points to remember about securing and managing identities, so that your company is in compliance with government regulations:
Addressing IT Security Questions
You can strengthen your financial institutions security by interviewing your IT personnel about how well your company is protected from cyber threats. Periodic interrogation about security will remind them to stay alert about it and to closely monitor network activity. Here are key questions to ask:
•	How is network access managed and monitored?
•	What type of protection is used for third party services?
•	What processes are used to upgrade the network and applications?
•	Is the system compliant with government mandates?
•	How advanced is the security system in terms of blocking hackers?
Answers to these questions will help you evaluate the quality of your cyber security and business continuity. No business is immune from a cyberattack, but any financial institution can take steps toward raising the level of protecting infrastructure and architecture through virtualization and segmentation. Keeping each application compartmentalized is like keeping a disease from spreading out of control.
Proactive Measures
One of the first steps to making your enterprise network as secure as possible is tightening access by assigning specific applications for each individual employee based on their company role. Another step is to limit access to virtual servers, understanding that once an attacker is inside a bank, its potentially easy for them to exploit multiple vulnerabilities. All it really takes is a single vulnerability to exploit the entire network.
Steps to Improve Security
1.	Create complex passwords
2.	Add protection to all your virtual servers and devices
3.	Use the latest encrypted security solutions
4.	Eliminate east-west vulnerabilities through segmentation
5.	Use a defensive micro-perimeter for each isolated application
6.	Assign each application to its own dedicated virtual network
7.	Monitor for threats on the enterprise and virtual application networks
This process helps create protective bubbles around all applications. The more you separate your applications, the less damage an attacker can do if they manage to get inside the system. It will diminish path opportunities that malware attack kits are designed to exploit. The use of virtualization is affordable and can play a major role in strengthening your online security.
The combination of securing identities and segmenting applications disrupts the paths that cyber criminals can take. This strategy will enormously reduce the odds of a security breach. Additionally, modern network monitoring tools now provide network visibility beyond the enterprise network, allowing you to monitor server-to-server traffic. Finally, its crucial for bank officials to take a top-down proactive security approach.
Conclusion
In order to maximize cyber security, your IT support team must stay on top of constantly changing and improving solutions. Setting up multiple layers of protection, administering strict controls on access and using segmentation are essential to guarding against cyberattacks. Contact us at onShore Securityto find out how to add more robust protective layers to your banking technology.
BANK:
6 ways the banking industry could improve on cybersecurity
Published: July 2, 2015 2:40 p.m. ET
 
 
By
PRIYAANAND
Reuters
J.P. Morgan was the victim of a data breach.
The threat of a hack is among banks biggest fears.
And those threats are becoming more frequent, and more sophisticated, according to a report released Thursday by the U.S. Government Accountability Office. “Depository institutions are estimated to have incurred hundreds of millions of dollars in losses from breaches in the systems of their corporate customers that allowed criminals to illegally transfer funds from the customers bank accounts, and from frauds perpetrated against their automated teller machines.”
The industry is taking action to fend off attacks, from hassling customers on real purchases on the tiny chance of catching a criminal to building out more secure websites.
Heres the GAOs take on how banks and regulators could get better at cybersecurity.
1. Some banks still dont take the hacker threat seriously, until they become victims themselves.
“...Institutions may not make information security a priority until they experience an incident,” according to the GAOs interviews with security vendors and federal officials.
Institutions with in-house staff may be better-equipped to handle attacks since they have the expertise on hand, the report says. Small and community banks may not have people whose sole jobs revolve around security.
But for what its worth, federal banking guidance released this week said smaller banks could have a better handle on cybersecurity since they have fewer systems to protect and are less complex.
Read: Why your money may be safer with smaller banks
2. Regulators collect data on bank security but dont actually analyze all of it — which means that they cant say, “Hey, this is a problem for everyone. Heres how to fix it.”
The GAO found that, firstly, regulators dont collect security and threat information from banks in a way where they could see patterns among different institutions. And whatever they do collect is hodgepodge — varied in detail and usually not broken down into categories to differentiate between the types of threats. That makes it much harder to see the forest for the trees.
Also see: The financial industrys biggest cyber fears
3. All bank regulators need the authority to look into third-party vendors, who often provide information technology services to banks but can open them up to more risks.
The National Credit Union Association doesnt have the authority to examine third-party vendors, which many credit unions use for technology services, according to the report. The group has been asking for this power for about a decade, it told the GAO. That would give it a chance to ensure the technology providers have proper cybersecurity measures in place, and make sure credit unions are secure.
4. As mobile banking grows in popularity, the industry needs to step up its game to secure applications.
While mobile malware is a relatively low threat, it could worsen as mobile banking becomes more popular, the report says.
5. Regulators need more IT specialists so examiners of small and medium-sized institutions can better protect themselves.
Small and medium-sized banks are considered lower-risk than the biggest banks, so often times, regulators send them IT officials with less training who were “not as specific and useful as the review that involved the examiner with IT expertise.” These institutions told the GAO they found in past years, when they were visited by higher-level IT examiners from regulators, their cybersecurity posture improved.
6. People are sharing information on threats, but its repetitive, slow and lacking in critical details.
Part of the problem is that when a bank is under attack, it might not be able to immediately give other banks details on why or how it is under cyber siege due to ongoing law enforcement investigations. Or, in many cases, banks are too concerned about ruining their reputations, the report says, which makes them less willing to talk.
“Data breaches and security incidents require rapid response to mitigate impact; therefore, effective preparation or responses require timely and usable information,” the report says.

BANK:
Banking Experience: The Best Customer Experience Strategy for Banks to Improve CX
by Nitish Gautam, on Sat, Nov 25, 2017 
 7 Min Read

We all have interacted with a banking institution for one reason or another - whether it's for personal banking (opening a bank account), technical support, or ebanking services. Having to interact with customer service at a bank is generally not a pleasant experience. But why does the idea of engaging with a bank sound like such an ordeal? Read on.
What is Banking Experience?
What is considered banking experience? Technically, what qualifies as a finance experience or banking experience?
The Banking Experience (or client experience) is the sum of all interactions a customer perceives along the entire customer journey when interacting with a bank or financial institution. According to Forrester, Customer Experience (CX) is defined as “how customers perceive their interactions with a company."
Note: The banking experience is not at all the same as a bank asking a potential job candidate about his banking experience, which basically is the same as asking the level of proficiency of the particular candidate in handling customers and delivering an amazing banking customer experience throughout the individual's career.
Importance of Good Banking Experience
Why is it important to provide a good banking experience? In the modern digital age, customers have lots of options when it comes to choosing a company to invest their hard earned money. Not only that, customer demands have increased with the widespread adoption of technology. This is why banks should improve customer experience for their customers.
 
Companies who provide an ideal banking experience to their customers increase customer loyalty and satisfaction, with better retention.
Banking Statistics: Banking Customer Experience Trends 
Here, we explore recent customer experience trends in banking with some CX statistics:
•	Omnichannel customer experience is one of the key areas for improvement among banks, according to Ernst & Young Consumer Banking Survey 2014.
•	According to Accentures 2016 North American Banking Survey, 87% of consumers will still use their branches in the future.
•	According to McKinsey, improving customer experience increase customers likelihood to renew or buy new products by between 30-50%.
•	According to Google, 46% of people managing their finances online switch between devices before completing the activity, often starting from mobile and switching to PC/tablet.
•	According to Accenture Banking 2020, more than 30% of consumers switched their bank providers in the past six to 12 months due to good competitive pricing, high customer service quality or good value for money. The same report states that 61% of banking customers expect to have access to more online interactions across their entire customer lifecycle.
•	Analysts at Wise Guy suggest the global retail banking market will grow at CAGR 6.08% to 2020.
•	The Capgemini World Retail Banking Report found that banks admitted they had not yet got a grip on the emerging Fintech revolution.
•	Only 37% of customers believe that banks understand their needs and preferences adequately, according to Capgemini.
•	Consumers believe it is important that customer service professionals feel empowered to handle requests on their own without worrying about transfer or escalations, according to American Express.
 
Best CX Strategy for Banking to Improve CX
Investing and improving customer experience is possibly the best CX strategy for banking institutions. Making customer experience the sole differentiator of your brand will have a major positive impact on your business. Here's are a series of steps for improving customer experience in banks:
1. Plan
Have a set of defined goals and targets, identify your audience and create campaigns targeting specific audiences with different strategies for each demographic.
2. Strategize
Create a customer experience strategy to achieve your goals and targets.
3. Improve CX
Take action and take proactive measures to design experiences for each of your customer segments.
4. Measure and Refine
Collect data and use a data-driven strategy to take business decisions.
Ideas to Improve Customer Experience in Banks
How to improve CX in banking? What is the best idea to improve CX in banks? People often ask us about ways to improve customer experience in banks or financial organizations. To help you out, here are some really good ideas to improve customer experience in the banking sector:
•	Offer 24/7 Customer Support with 0% downtimes
•	Create a Customer Journey Map to Get a Bird's Eye View of all
•	Customer Interactions along the Entire Customer Journey
•	Instead of multichannel, go omnichannel to eliminate silos
•	Find Gaps in your System to Improve Customer Service
•	Use Innovative Customer Experience Strategies to Surprise Your Customers
•	Create a Customer Experience Strategy for Your Type of Business
•	Think about the Future of Customer Experience, and Strive to Deliver it
•	Incorporate a Customer Service Chatbot to Answer Most Frequent Online Queries
•	Use the Power of Artificial Intelligence to Improve Customer Experience

•	Create an Android Application with a Well Branded User Interface
•	Choose the Right Customer Experience Analytics Metrics to Collect, Analyze and Improve
•	Build Customer Profiles and Enable a Holistic Single 360 Customer View
•	Empower Your Employees to Go Out of their Way to Satisfy Customers and Build Long Lasting Relationships
If you're looking for ideas to improve customer service, we've already got you covered. You'll also find that most customer service ideas also apply to customer experience improvement in the banking industry.
 
Examples of Good Banking Experience
SNS Bank
SNS Bank, a Netherlands-based retail bank, does not operate like most banks. They have restructured their branches to function as advisory units that serves as a convenient extension of their physical bank branches.
Capital One
Capital One, a retail bank, has a 360 Bank account where customers can set up an unlimited number of online bank accounts with ease, and offers a bird-eye view of all accounts. They even have Capital One Cafes where anyone can spend their leisure time and get banking advice for free.
Sharing Bank
Sharing Bank (Mexico City) provides micro-finance loans to women to help them become independent and earning members of the family. They also provide basic digital education to encourage the use of mobile banking and online transactions.
Banking Experience: Conclusion
If you're a retail bank or financial institution who's concerned about the quality of customer experience in your business, FusionCX is your answer to improved banking experience!

BANK:
How Banks Can Improve the Customer Experience: 5 Tips and Best Practices
By
Molly Galetto
July 03, 2018
Tips & Tricks
   
When it comes to the customer experience, many challenges that banks face are rooted in technology. But its not what you think – at least, not exactly.
The immediate (and obvious) challenge is the adoption of banking technology. An estimated 88% of Americans own smartphones, and theyre using them to do banking, from checking their account balances, to paying bills, to opening new accounts. In fact, at least half of all banking operations now occur online.
And yet, adopting mobile technology – building a bank app and enabling digital banking services – is not the only technological barrier to an improved customer experience. Indeed, technology has removed much of the face-to-face bank-customer interactions, which can cause decreases in customer loyalty. Today, its easy to shop around. Its easy to open a new account at another bank. Its easy to download a new app. Its easy to walk away.
So, how can banks improve the customer experience? Here are 5 tips and best practices:
1.	Understand the Customer Journey
2.	Improve the Local Branch Experience
3.	Empower Bank Employees
4.	Embrace Online Banking Technology
5.	Never Stop Improving
Read on to find out how to put these strategies to use to improve the customer experience.
1.	Understand the Customer Journey
The first step to identifying opportunities for an improved customer experience is to understand the banking journey your customer takes.
First and foremost, know that the end-to-end banking customer journey is not linear. There will be stops and starts, circles-back and false-starts. Your customers will use multiple devices. They will make phone calls. They may even show up in person. Collect data and explore these various points of contact. Understand your mix of contact channels – your website and email, your contact center and local branches, your social media and online chat.
When you have a solid, unified view of all these touch points, you will have a better understanding of the path your customers follow. This path serves as a blueprint for improving the customer experience: How can you better meet customer needs? How can you reduce their frustrations? What other products might they need, that you can develop?
2.	Improve the Local Branch Experience
In a post so heavily focused on customer-centered banking technology, it seems strange to start with the in-person experience. But here we are, and well tell you why: This is your chance to shine.
When customers walk into your bank, what do they see? Are they greeted with a somber wall of self-service machines? Is there a single teller window open? Are bank employees hidden behind office doors? Is your bank sterile and practically painted in red tape?
 
Start here. Remember, an estimated 40% of business still requires an in-person visit. You want that visit to be positive. Nay, stellar. You want to outperform your customers expectations. Outshine the competition. Wow them with your friendly service. Impress them with your relaxed, inviting atmosphere. Show them that theyre welcome, that youre there to serve – not to shepherd them to a self-service machine.
3.	Empower Bank Employees
Sometimes, a better customer experience can be as simple as knowledgeable bank employees. Indeed, proper training of your customer “front line,” so to speak, ensures that your employees not only have the answers to customer questions, but also understand the technologies your bank uses. At the very least, all bank employees should have immediate access to up-to-date, accurate information – or a portal to easily search for that information. Most importantly, employees should be empowered with relevant information so that they can service their customers better, both in-person and through their digital channels.
4.	Embrace Online Banking Technology
Today, its not enough to do what everyone else is doing. To be sure, your bank must offer the standard online services – account access, online bill pay, etc. – but to provide an exceptional customer experience, you must go beyond. You must innovate.
With fingerprint readers, card readers, and other new and emerging financial technologies, which ensure privacy and reduce fraud concerns, banks can empower their clientele with increasingly innovative technologies to facilitate the customer journey and improve customer satisfaction. You could:
•	Add digital payment options to your mobile services to cut through standard banking red tape.
•	Allow customers to initiate in-branch transactions via a mobile device, to be completed in person using their smartphones Near Field Capabilities (NFC) features.
•	Employ ever-evolving biometrics, such as retina scanning, to reduce customer frustrations while increasing online banking security.
•	Use bank marketing, social media, and other contact points to create more targeted, relevant customer offers.
5.	Never Stop Improving
As LinkedIn founder, Reid Hoffman, said, “If you are not embarrassed by the first version of your product, youve launched too late.”
Of course, in banking, you dont want to rush out an unfinished product. But the quote is sound: Push the envelope. Innovate. Do more for your customers than the competition is doing, both in person and in the digital sphere, and youll win their loyalty and business. If you understood the wants and needs of your customers, you could innovate with real knowledge of what is likely to work and what your customers actually need.
Other Articles of Interest


BANK:
Five areas of improvement for online banking
Oct 2013
•	Related tags:
•	banking
•	cash management
•	technology
•	strategy

Despite corporates wanting more, their online banking experience is lagging behind the times. Research from the Aite Group examined five key online banking initiatives to gauge corporate demand.
Corporate customers expectations in regards to their online banking experiences are higher than ever before, driven in part by the customised experiences treasurers enjoy in their personal lives from online retailers such as Amazon.com. However, most corporates are served through outdated bank technologies.
For example, according to the Aite Groups recent report ‘Enhancing the online customer experience: feedback from corporate treasurers, it is “not uncommon for corporations to face multiple system logins, non-intuitive customer interfaces that require searching and navigating the website, and reports that dont meet their needs. The result has been low customer satisfaction levels and a corporate perception that banks dont understand their needs.”
In order to better understand market conditions, the Aite Group surveyed 185 US-based corporates, mainly Union Bank clients, regarding the impact of several planned bank initiatives on improving their overall online cash management experience.
The research took stock of the following five bank initiatives:
1.	Dashboards:
66% of those surveyed believe that a more customised dashboard is ‘very important to ‘extremely important to improving their overall online cash management experience.
2.	Tighter system integration/portal creation:
more than half (52%) of treasurers surveyed believe that single sign-on and a consolidated view will enhance their online banking experience.
3.	Easier data exchange between bank and corporate systems:
67% say that having tighter integration and easier data exchange between the bank site and their ERP/accounting system for better straight through processing (STP) to improving their overall online cash management experience is ‘very important to ‘extremely important.
4.	Reporting:
only 19% of corporate treasurers surveyed describe their banks reports as ‘highly customisable, easy to use and provide their organisation with that they are looking for; whereas 22% create almost all of their own reports.
5.	Real-time data:
81% of corporate treasurers state that access to more real-time information is critical to improving their online cash management experience.
In conclusion, the report states: “Tomorrows problems cant be solved with yesterdays technology. Banks must invest in newer, more flexible systems, break down silos to pave the way for integration, and focus on system usability.”


BANK:
8 Ways to Improve Your Bank or Credit Unions Customer Service
Providing exceptional customer service in your bank or credit union is important, helping to attract and retain customers in a competitive landscape. As technology becomes more robust and customer-buying habits shift, banks and credit unions must be constantly looking for areas of innovation and ways to meet the demands of a 21st-century customer.
If you work in a bank or credit union and are looking for ways to improve your customer service, here are 8 proven methods:
1. Empower Your Employees
Your customer service employees are your front line. As such, they need to have the right resources to provide exceptional customer service. But many times they dont. Far too many banks and credit unions are falling behind when it comes to providing their employees with the tools they need to most effectively do their job and that in turn not only affects customer service quality but employee morale as well. For example, inefficient and dis-organized knowledge base solutions result in confusion for your front line staff. They cant find the information they need which impact their confidence and the confidence of customers. In order to change this, banks and credit unions need to ensure that every employee has:
•	Accurate, up-to-date and consistent information
•	Immediate answers to their questions
•	An easy way to search for information
Download the 2018 Guide to Improving Banking Customer Service >
All too often the critical information employees need in order to answer customer questions is buried in long policy documentation or only available by asking the “key go to people” i.e. lending and managers. In a recent SilverCloud poll, a majority of banks and credit unions reported that 30% or more of key “go to” staffs daily time is spent supporting front line staff questions. This inefficient system leaves customers waiting on hold and employees scrambling for information.
2. Educate Your Customers on Financial Literacy
The concept of educating potential and current customers on financial literacy is not necessarily new. What is new is how banks and credit unions today are choosing to do it and whom theyre now targeting. While financial literacy programs such as Operation HOPE and Junior Achievement, have existed outside of banks for many years, targeting low income and youth populations, it is only recently that banks have recognized the value in bringing educational initiatives in-house. In fact, Operation HOPEs new model does just that, bringing its financial literacy program into bank branches. And these types of financial literacy programs arent targeted towards the low-income population but towards middle class customers, who may need education but are embarrassed to seek it out.
Bank of America has partnered with the educational site Khan Academy to offer its customers financial literacy video tutorials. And Capital One offers its customers and non-profit organizations free multilingual financial education through its partnership with MoneyWise.
When it comes to financial education, the benefits for banks are huge and the avenues to deliver that education are many. As a special report put out by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco stated, “At a time when competition in retail banking is fierce, targeted financial education programs can open new roads into untapped populations, such as the immigrant and underbanked markets. In addition, financial education programs can also create goodwill at the community level and strengthen relationships with local customers and community partners. In some cases, banks can also receive Community Reinvestment Act credit for providing financial education to low- and moderate-income individuals.”
3. Embrace Financial Technology
Staying in compliance with strict regulations and meeting customer demand for immediate, on-the-go service are issues in which banks and credit unions are constantly struggling. Yet, as banks and the financial sector as a whole catch up with advances in technology, they are finding great opportunities to improve their bottom line and increase customer satisfaction.
Some of the ways innovators in the banking sector are using financial technologies to improve their businesses are through:
•	Exploring advances in mobile payment options
•	Using biometrics, such as voice identification and eye scanning, to increase security
•	Integrating systems and converting old data to new formats
•	Installing drive-through video teller devices
•	Taking advantage of customer data and social media (that banks have but are not using to its full potential) to enhance bank marketing and geographically targeted customer offers
These are just some of the many opportunities that financial technology is making available to banks. Due to a large number of start-up fintech (financial technology) companies, such as Square, Lending Club and OnDeck that popped up after the great recession in ‘08 there has been increasing innovation in the field. By looking to these startup companies for inspiration, banks and credit unions can gain an immense amount of knowledge and integrate systems and strategies that work best for their customer base.
4. Become An Advisor, Not Just a Lender, For Small Businesses
Small businesses, post-recession, are looking for more than just a lender. They are looking for a business partner. For community banks and credit unions, this customer need has created a unique opportunity. Yet, many banks and credit unions have not figured out quite how to move beyond the traditional lender role they have played for so long. Synopsizing a recent study by McKinsey & Co., American Banker said, “Serving small-business customers more holistically is a goal that many community banks aspire to. But few are truly making a transition from the lender role to an adviser one, and there is a lot of revenue upside for those who do.”
By acting as an advisor to small business clients, banks gain an additional revenue stream through fee-based services. For example, Lead Bank in Garden City, MO has begun offering services such as strategic planning, capital raising and bookkeeping to supplement their traditional loan and deposit offerings. First Financial Bank in Cincinnati offers a minimal cash management service to its customers, which moves cash to a higher return investment once the account hits a certain level.
“In the Netherlands, SNS Bank has reorganized its branches into a network of advisory-focused, cashless banking shops that serve as a physical extension of the Web. Branches are store-like outlets, have open spaces, tablets that customers can use, and extended opening
Hours,” according to McKinsey and Company. “The original function of a bank branch – depositing and withdrawing cash – has disappeared. Instead, the focus is on a “consultant-style” mobile sales force specialized in selling complex products from both the bank itself and other providers.”
Offering additional services beyond traditional lending benefits the bank through additional revenue and the small business customer who gains a trusted financial partner.
5. Segment Your Client Base and Create Personalized Customer Experiences
With so much competition in the retail banking and credit union space, customers have choices. Whats more, consumer trust fell after the recession began in 2008. For institutions that wish to stay competitive and build customer trust, personalization and segmentation of both messaging and services is crucial. According to an Ernst & Young Survey and a 2013 Forrester Inc. research report, Financial Service Brands Fail to Earn True Consumer Trust, “Financial service brands have long suffered from a lack of consumer trust, but the 2008 financial collapse undermined the brand relationship. Difficult as the road is, financial service brands must strive to secure brand trust to build their brand. One of the key drivers of earning back customer trust is through superior personalized product offerings. High quality products that meet customer needs are a key driver of trust in financial services.”
And with the massive amounts of customer data banks have in their possession, the untapped opportunities for personalization are almost endless.
Credit unions have been on to this idea for years. Member relationships and community are the foundation of these institutions. So it might not come as a surprise that member satisfaction is higher among credit unions than banks. According to a study by First Data, “Even though credit unions are less widely used than national and local banks, they have the highest customer satisfaction: 92 percent of credit union customers are highly satisfied, compared to 84 percent for regional/local banks and 75 percent for national banks. The more personalized nature of the credit union membership experience may account for this higher satisfaction.” But that doesnt mean there isnt more that credit unions can do to improve their personalization strategies.
By personalizing messaging and services, customers are more likely to feel valued and their engagement with your bank or credit union is likely to increase. Today, there are a multitude of personalization technologies available to banks and credit unions that allow for:
•	Marketing automation that includes CRMs, lead scoring, robust email marketing capabilities and ROI reporting
•	Prioritization of high touch customers and members
•	Individualized interactions based on customer communication preferences
•	Information delivered specifically to a customer based on prior behavior and recent transactions
Through personalization technology, customers are also able to access the information they need immediately, without having to call the customer service line. And banks are able to proactively view and manage customer journeys to better target each customer on an individual level with products and services they need and want at that moment in time.
6. Stay Consistent Across Channels and Branches and at Every Touch Point
According to an Ernst & Young 2014 Consumer Banking Survey, omni-channel experience was listed as one of the key areas for improvement among banks. The survey stated, “To stay competitive, banks and credit unions need to continue building out channel capabilities to provide 24/7 real-time access to banking, seamlessly, across channels.”
Providing consistent and accurate information across channels is a constant challenge for banks and credit unions. Yet, in todays technological world, with customers banking online, on their mobile devices and on tablets in addition to at branch locations, providing consistent information is becoming more and more crucial for institutions hoping to provide the best in banking customer service. According to a Banking Technology article, “Research from Google has shown that 46% of people managing their finances online switch between devices before completing the activity. Often customers will start research on a smartphone before migrating to a PC or tablet to dig deeper into the information they need.”
7. Create Real Customer Relationships
Creating relationships with customers and members is at the heart of a strong customer service strategy. It is crucially important to customer satisfaction and retention, but it is often easier said than done.
In order to create strong customer relationships, banks and credit unions must:
•	Build trust
•	Be transparent
•	Stay consistent and reliable
Trust and transparency go hand in hand and are very important in the financial services industry, especially in the wake of the ‘08 financial crisis. In todays modern world as the traditional branch function changes, consistency across channels and branches is key. Through customer and employee education, rewards and offers programs, personalized marketing, technological innovation and an emphasis on customer centricity (waiving fees for loyal customers, using data to personalize messaging and services, offering free additional advisory services, etc.), these three tenets of a strong customer service strategy can be achieved.
8. Test and Then Test Again
Just like no two customers are exactly alike, no two banks or credit unions are the same. What works for one bank and one customer segment may not work for another. The only way to know for sure what works in your bank or credit union is to test. And then test again. Testing things such as frequency, messaging and channel of communications; target markets for certain products; and special offers are just some of the very many areas possible for testing and honing.
At SilverCloud we help banks and credit unions offer the best in customer service and experience. Through a consumer enablement platform that integrates across mobile, Internet and digital banking channels, SilverCloud provides a consistent and intelligent buying experience for the customer. Learn more about Digital Enablement and how we help banks and credit unions provide exceptional customer service that translates into revenue, loan and deposit growth.


BANK:
Improving Customer Service in the Branch
Financial institutions, and for that matter, all service-oriented businesses, tend to struggle with customer service. Few (if any) companies become customer service stars without a clear plan to achieve their goals – and appropriate execution of the associated strategies.
Fortunately, many of the problems that hamper good customer service are often fairly easy to avoid. Furthermore, part of managing the customer service experience is managing the way those customers perceive it. Based on our experience working with financial institutions, the following actions can prove helpful:
Encourage Positive Attitudes. When wait times become too long, tellers and lobby service representatives (LSRs) feel pressured to perform. This affects their attitude and can worsen the customer experience. Some of the things you can do to help branch staff stay positive include training them to remain calm and cheerful under pressure. This doesnt have to involve expensive workshops and programs. Something as simple as role-playing exercises, with one employee playing the part of the hurried customer, can be very beneficial.
It is also helpful to institute performance incentives that have both a performance and an “attitude” component (e.g. a bonus for customer praise). Properly implemented, incentive plans lead to stronger buy-in from your staff and result in significant improvements to their morale.
Clearly Define Staff Roles. One of the biggest mistakes branch management makes is to immediately jump in on the teller line (or let LSRs or teller supervisors do it) when any sort of wait time occurs. This is an inefficient use of managers time, which should remain focused on their primary responsibilities. One highly beneficial activity for LSRs, teller supervisors or branch managers is to speak briefly with customers who are waiting. If resources permit, they should engage these customers in a brief conversation, perhaps answering their questions ahead of time and/or soliciting feedback on their banking experiences. This reduces the perceived time customers wait.
Customers should be the sole focus of LSRs and tellers when they are in front of them. Auxiliary duties should be assigned only during non-customer-facing time. Using time-blocking/scheduling tools (especially for tellers) to forecast lull periods and proactively assign auxiliary duties during those periods is an excellent way to ensure staff stay focused and productive. This isnt just about customer service. Employees who attempt to multi-task while engaging customers are also more likely to make mistakes. Especially for tellers, transaction accuracy is paramount. Distractions can result in major errors that leave them – and the branch – out of balance.
Some of the auxiliary duties tellers often perform while on the line that are best scheduled during non-customer-facing time include:
•	Balancing daily transactions and verifying cash totals;  
•	Investigating and resolving out-of-balance conditions;  
•	Performing file maintenance and account changes, as needed;  
•	Performing related clerical duties, as required;  
•	Making outbound sales and account-holder support calls.
Avoid Overstaffing. For branch management that doesnt possess sophisticated technology to analyze traffic trends and make accurate schedule forecasts, it often seems that the easiest way to improve customer service is to add more staff. While having more staff available during peak periods can reduce wait times, there is no guarantee it will. No one, including the employees themselves, wants staff just standing around. Excess staff may become engaged in other activities (busy work) and be otherwise occupied precisely when you need them most. Furthermore, overstaffing generally reduces morale and is certainly terrible for productivity and your bottom line.
A much better solution is to implement a proactive scheduling solution, based on historical data such as customer assistance and teller transaction volumes, that illustrates when and where staff will actually be needed. Even with such assistance, scheduling can be a challenge for banks that have short peak-volume periods. Once you have solid data identifying your “crunch” times, you should be able to alleviate the scheduling challenge by using an appropriate mix of both part-time and full-time employees. Dont be afraid to schedule for shorter timeframes, as low as three or four hours. Students, young parents and others with flexibility are often willing to work short shifts.
Manage the Lobby Efficiently. Customer satisfaction in the lobby is just as important – more so for some customers – as in the teller line. Lobby customers are often having deeper conversations that can require an extra attention to detail, unlike the teller window, where customers are dealing with less complex transactions. Successful banks optimize not only the wait times for customers to see an LSR but also the time customers spend with the LSR and the business that is conducted during that meeting.
It is very difficult for a branch manager or other supervisor to discern whether or not LSR sessions with customers are too long or too short, unless they implement some type of computerized tracking system, which can work like this: At arrival, customers sign in with either a bank associate with an iPad or stationed at a self-service kiosk. From that moment until their session with the LSR is complete, the time they spend waiting and being helped are tracked (separately). The identity of the customer is also noted in the system through a secure method.
Also tracked are the items discussed during the session, including any new products sold, issues resolved, etc. Once the tracked sessions are aggregated by employee and branch, the resulting data can give management incredible insight into when lobbies are busy, how long customers are waiting, which employees are spending productive time and which are spending long sessions with little sell-through. Lobby tracking systems also identify high- and low-performing employees and time periods, leading to more targeted coaching opportunities.
Be Sensible About Customer Expectations: Customers expect a short wait; they do not necessarily require no wait at all, an idea that is often erroneously associated with excellent customer service. Most importantly, what they dont want is a long, unexplained wait with an unfriendly, inefficient or inaccurate outcome at the end. In this way, banks are like every other service sector. Youll wait longer to be seated at a table at a great restaurant as at a mediocre one; youll accept longer lead times for appointments with a doctor you like compared to one who frustrates or upsets you.
Banks that keep these universal principles in mind and take a professional approach to scheduling and running their lobbies and teller lines will keep current customers satisfied and encourage them to refer new ones.

BANK:
BANKING
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF AN INVESTMENT BANKER 

For an investment banker, everyday can be full of challenges and daunting tasks that may require one to have an ability to work under pressure and put in long hours of work. This is how a day in the life of an I Banker looks like –
•	A typical day starts off with either continuing with a project or getting staffed on something new or both. Throughout the day, the analyst helps senior bankers put together client presentation materials including company and industry pages, valuation pages or just basic research.
•	Apart from client related work, there is usually some internal database or market update that the analyst is responsible for on a daily basis (at least in the first year). There maybe several other administrative items that need to be done (e.g. compiling client meeting notes for the senior banker).
•	If the team has a lot of deals or pitch work going on, the analyst can expect to be very busy – maybe even put in all-nighters. However, there can be low activity periods where the analyst has nothing much to do and has to just wait around for work. The workflow therefore is quite unpredictive, both in quantity and quality. It is often a function of what the larger team is doing and what the client requirements are.
•	Of course, there is a daily dosage of mails to be attended to – from clients who request information or guidance on certain matters. Pressing matters may require the I Banker to alter his routine time table and attend to it on priority basis.
•	If the I Banker is lucky enough to have some time off, he has to keep himself abreast with the latest trends: through magazines, news and of course, the Internet. Research is one of the major activities, hence, he cannot skip this task of keeping in touch with whats happening in the stock market and the industry, large, tax reforms, changes in laws and regulations etc. He also has to dedicate some extra time for studying new things that can be helpful in his work.
Salary and perks:
• Investment Banking in a bulge bracket IB is a financially rewarding career
1.	The starting salary for front-end analysts in bulge bracket IBs is over INR 25 Lakhs/annum. This is just the fixed pay and there is usually a bonus that could range anywhere from 20% to 70% of the basic pay. In great market conditions, one has even heard of fat bonuses upto 100% of the basic! Those were the glorious pre-recession days however, and right now the market is not offering such generous bonuses. However, things may improve as the market picks up again
2.	As one climbs up the ladder, there are often ESOPs as well
3.	Other perks of the job (mostly at senior levels) are meeting high profile clients, traveling, wining and dining in style (though recent cost cutting measures have curbed a few of these things)
• If one joins the offshore units, they could hope to start off at a fixed pay of around INR 10 Lakhs/annum with a bonus in a similar range as above. Once they move on to the global program the salaries are on par with front-end roles as mentioned above
• In Indian boutique investment banks, one may have to start a bit lower at around INR 7 Lakhs/annum or so and a lower bonus than the bulge bracket firms

BANK:
Investment banking In India | Top Banks List | Salary | Jobs
Investment Banking Tutorials
•	Investment Banking Free Course
•	Investment Banking Basics
o	What is Investment Banking? (Overview of what do they actually do!)
o	Investment Banking vs Commercial Banking
o	Equity Research in an Investment Bank
o	What is Asset Management Company AMC
o	Sales and Trading in Investment Banking
o	Private Placement, IPO and FPO in Investment Banking
o	Investment Banking – Underwriters and Market Makers
o	Investment Banking – Mergers and Acquisitions
o	Investment Banking – Restructuring and Reorganisation
o	Investment Banking Roles and Responsibilities
o	Market Makers
o	Top 4 Must Know Investment Banking Charts (Free Download Template included)
o	Pitch Book | Guide to Investment Banking Pitch Book (Examples)
o	Leverage buyout Lbo Analysis
o	Trading Floor
o	Merchant Bank
o	Best Investment Banking Books
o	Nasdaq vs Dow Jones
o	Nasdaq vs Nyse
•	Investment Banking Careers
o	Investment Banking Interview Questions (with Answers)
o	How to get into Investment Banking?
o	Investment Banking Job Description
o	Investment Banking Associate Salary
o	Investment Banking Job For Graduates (Engineers) | Top 8 Tips
o	How to get an Investment Banking Internship?
o	Top 10 Finance Certifications Programs
o	Investment Banking Lifestyle
o	Investment Banking Exit Opportunities
o	Investment Banking Case Studies
o	Top 10 Best Finance courses (with Online Certification)
o	Investor Relation Job Description
o	Financial Analyst Job Description
o	Investment Banking vs Equity Research
o	Investment Banking vs Asset Management
o	Commercial Banking vs Merchant Banking
o	Investment Banking vs Corporate Banking
o	Portfolio Management vs Investment Banking
o	Investment Banking vs Hedge Fund Manager
o	Investment Banking vs Investment Management
o	Investment Banking vs Private Equity
•	Investment Banking Firms
o	Top Bulge Bracket Investment Banks
o	Top Middle Market Investment Banks
o	Top Boutique Investment Banks
o	Investment Banking in Dubai
o	Investment Banking in Hong Kong
o	Investment Banking in Russia
o	Investment Banking in Brazil
o	Investment Banking in China
o	Investment Banking in Australia
o	Investment Banking in Saudi Arabia
o	Investment Banking in Singapore
o	Investment Banking in London (UK)
o	Investment Banking in India
o	Investment Banking in Ireland
o	Investment Banking in South Africa
o	Investment Banking in Canada
o	Investment Banking in Germany
o	Investment Banking in France
•	Top Banks
o	Top Banks In Austria
o	Top Banks In Bahrain
o	Top Banks In Belgium
o	Top Banks In Bermuda
o	Top Banks In British Virgin Islands
o	Top Banks In Brunei
o	Top Banks In Canada
o	Top Banks In Cayman Islands
o	Top Banks In Denmark
o	Top Banks In Finland
o	Top Banks In France
o	Top Banks In Germany
o	Top Banks In Greenland
o	Top Banks In Guernsey
o	Top Banks In Ireland
o	Top Banks In Isle of Man
o	Top Banks In Japan
o	Top Banks In Kuwait
o	Top Banks In Liechtenstein
o	Top Banks In Luxembourg
o	Top Banks In Macau
o	Top Banks In Norway
o	Top Banks In Oman
o	Top Banks In Puerto Rico
o	Top Banks In Qatar
o	Top Banks In Saudi Arabia
o	Top Banks In Singapore
o	Top Banks In South Korea
o	Top Banks In Sweden
o	Top Banks In Switzerland
•	Mergers and Acquisitions
o	What is Mergers and Acquisitions?
o	Mergers vs Acquisitions
o	Synergy in M&A
o	Successful Mergers and Acquisitions
o	Financing Acquisitions
o	Statutory Merger
o	Joint Venture
o	White Knight
o	Hostile Takeover
o	Golden Parachute
o	Poison Pills
o	What is Amalgamation?
o	Spin off vs Split Off
o	Forward Integration
o	Backward Integration
o	Best Mergers and Acquisitions Books
o	What is Asset Restructuring?

Investment Banking in India – Do you dream of being a high-flying professional who wants to make it big in the investment world, but dont have a clue where to look?
Heres your answer. If you want to move into Investment Banking, then you should know the overall investment banking scenario in India, List of Top Investment Banks, Kind of Services Offered, their Culture, investment banking Salaries in India, investment banking jobs in India and whether you are fit for Investment Banking Profile.
In this article, we will go in-depth about investment banking world prevalent in India.
•	Overview of Investment Banking in India
•	Services Offered by Investment Banks in India
•	Top Investment Banks in India
•	Recruitment process – Investment Banks in India
•	Culture in Investment Banks in India
•	Salaries in Investment Banks in India
•	Investment Banking in India – Exit Opportunities
•	In the final analysis
OVERVIEW OF INVESTMENT BANKING IN INDIA
Before going into the nitty-gritty of investment banking in India, its important to throw some light on the history of investment banking in India.
It all started in 19th Century. During that period, European banks first established their trading industries in the land of India. Since that ancient time, foreign banks have taken the reign of investment banking in India. But that didnt last for a long time.
In the 1970s, State Bank of India started to spread their wings and created a bureau of merchant banking. And in the same decade, ICICI bank started offering various merchant banking services.
After a decade, banking became the thing of many and more than 30 merchant banks, financial institutions, and commercial banks started setting up their operations.
However, till the 1980s, banking didnt get the hype it deserved. In the 1990s, banking became an industry when more than 1500 bankers registered with SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India).
To regulate these huge numbers of banks, it was required to build an institution which will help banks adhere to the compliance and regulations. And thats how Association of Investment Bankers of India (AIBI) got started.
The objective of AIBI is to regulate the legal and ethical practices among members and also to promote and encourage the expansion of the industry.
Under AIBI, now there are many banks and financial institutions are registered. Have a look at the following institutions which are registered under AIBI and have already made their name in the investment banking industry in India –
•	
•	Axis Bank Ltd.
•	Barclays Bank PLC
•	BNP Paribas
•	Central Bank of India
•	Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Ltd.
•	Deutsche Equities India Private Ltd.
•	Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd.
•	HDFC Bank Ltd.
•	HSBC Securities & Capital Markets (India) Private Ltd.
•	ICICI Securities Ltd.
•	IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd.
•	JP Morgan India Private Ltd.
•	Morgan Stanley India Co. Private Ltd.
•	Religare Capital Markets Ltd.
•	SBI Capital Markets Ltd.
•	SMC Capitals Ltd.
Recommended Courses
•	Training on Financial Analyst
•	Certification Course in Investment Banking
•	Complete Mergers and Acquisitions Course
SERVICES OFFERED BY INVESTMENT BANKS IN INDIA
There is a whole gamut of services offered by the investment banks in India. Following are top services that stand out –
•	
o	
•	Mergers & Acquisition Advisory: Companies need to expand their market share and generate more revenue. Thus, they need to find better opportunity to merge or acquire other companies which can help them reach their objectives. Investment banks in India help these companies make the right deals (mergers & acquisition deals) and help them make a prudent decision so that the ROI gets to maximum and the risk becomes the least.
•	Management of Capital Issues: Usually investment banks in India offer management of public issues under two methods – fixed price method and book building method. They also offer IPO (Initial Public Offering), FPO (Follow on Public Offer), Preferential Issues, Rights Issue, QIP (Qualified Institutional Placement) and Debt Placement. The idea is to help the big organizations expand in the long run and to advise them on various strategies along the way.
•	Debt Syndication: When a company is looking to finance new opportunities, they always dont have enough cash to go for it. However, if they talk to the investment bankers, they are able to help them with project finance, term loan, working capital loan, mezzanine financing, external commercial borrowing etc. These services facilitate the public and private companies in tapping into the right opportunities at the right time and ensure solid growth.
•	Buybacks/Takeovers: Investment bankers in India advise their clients to buyback their shares at the right time. Moreover, they also help them do their due diligence, find out the target company, and facilitate in understanding whether the takeovers are necessary. They also help the companies adhere to compliances and regulations as per SEBI.
•	Corporate Advisory: Investment bankers in India offer corporate advisory to various companies, especially to giant companies and corporate bodies. As corporate advisory is a huge area, first they understand the needs of the companies and then offer tailor-made services. They start with business appraisals, and then the investment banks in India help the companies develop a business plan. Once the business plan is developed, they go for strategic project advisory. And then they also help the companies with business valuation, project identification, and corporate restructuring.
LIST OF TOP INVESTMENT BANKS IN INDIA
There are many investment banks in India which offer excellent services and have been gradually expanding their reach. But among all of them, here is the list of top 10 Indian investment banks as per the deal volume (these deals are purely based on M&A deals) –
Rank	Name of the Investment Bank	No. of Deals (2016)
1	Ernst & Young Private Ltd.	26
2	Price Water House Coopers, Investment Banking Arm	11
3	Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India, LLP	11
4	O3 Capital Global Advisory Private Ltd.	8
5	KPMG India Private Ltd.	8
6	Axis Capital Ltd.	7
7	Standard Chartered Bank, Investment Banking Division	6
8	Avendus Capital Private Ltd.	6
9	JM Financial Institutional Securities Ltd.	6
10	KPMG Corporate Finance LLC	6
source: vcedge.com
Now, lets have a look at the list of top 10 investment banks as per deal value (M&A) in 2016 –
Rank	Name of the Investment Bank	Deal Value (in $ millions)	No. of Deals
1	Arpwood Capital Private Ltd.	21,891.71	4
2	JM Financial Institutional Securities Ltd.	13,599.77	6
3	Morgan Stanley	11,950.00	4
4	Ernst & Young Global Ltd.	10,898.72	4
5	Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. Ltd.	10,149.96	4
6	Ambit Private Ltd.	9,730.00	3
7	DH Consultants Private Ltd.	9,730.00	1
7	Citigroup Global Markets India Private Ltd.	9,730.00	1
8	Lazard Ltd.	9,407.42	4
9	J.P. Morgan Securities LLC	8,000.00	1
9	Evercore Partners Inc.	8,000.00	1
10	Standard Chartered Bank, Investment Banking Division	3,667.80	6
source: vcedge.com
Now, lets look at the list of investment banks that have topped the list in 2016 in terms of IPO in the domestic market –
Rank	Name of the Investment Bank
1	ICICI Securities
2	Edelweiss Financial Services
3	Axis Bank
4	HSBC
5	Kotak Mahindra Bank
6	IIFL Securities
7	IDFC Bank
8	State Bank of India
9	JM Financial Institutional Securities Ltd.
10	Elara Capital
The best part of this list is that only one foreign bank has been included in the list, i.e. HSBC. Remaining all 9 banks belong to India. That means, the reign of foreign investment banking has been declining and more and more Indian investment banks are coming up on the top.
RECRUITMENT PROCESS – INVESTMENT BANKS IN INDIA
If you ever dream of being part of the investment banking industry in India, heres how you can crack the code. But a word of caution – thousands and thousands of students are going the same route and as a result, you may get lost in the crowd.
Have a glance at the recruitment process of these investment banks in India, so that you can prepare well and reach your dream jobs –
•	
o	
•	No HR business: As investment banking industry in India is quite different, rarely HR goes through investment banking resumes. It is done by MD directly. As investment banking professions are not for the faint-hearted, its important that the screening is done by the most important executives in the business.
•	Never try to tap insiders information to crack the interview: As an investment banker, you need to be trustworthy as you will be handling millions of bucks of important clients. So, dont try for any quick fix. Rather try to highlight why you are a good match for the job.
•	Selection process: Selecting best candidates for investment banking is quite different than other sorts of jobs. Usually, the candidates are judged on the basis of their technical skills, leadership ability, communication & interpersonal skills and self-motivation. First of all, the resumes are selected by the MD and then the shortlisted candidates are called for the interview. During the first round, most of the candidates are screened out. Only a few best candidates fit the bill and asked for the last round. If the number of candidates is huge, then there is a chance of biases as not all interviewers would be able to all the candidates. On the final round, the HR will brief the candidates about what they can expect during the interview. And then on the basis of consensus, the offer is released to the person who turns out to be most suitable for the company and its clients.
•	The most important thing: When an MD of an investment banker asked what is the one thing that separates the best candidate from the rest, he mentioned that GPAs are only important for first time screening; but ultimately what matters most is the willingness of the candidate to make their mark in investment banking industry. He also mentioned that most of the candidates apply in investment banking jobs in India just for money; very few want to go for the love of investment banking and they are the best of the lot in most cases.
CULTURE IN INVESTMENT BANKS IN INDIA
•	
o	
•	The culture in investment banking in India is not something most will look up to. Because there is a huge imbalance between taking risks and love for the work!
•	In investment banking, risk taking abilities and initiatives are directly proportionate to how much money the investment bankers will make, not how much love they have for the job. Thats why unfortunately not all candidates are suitable for investment banking jobs in India.
•	It may seem like a great labor market though, but usually, in the long term, very few investment bankers stay in one organization as they are offered higher position by competitors.
•	Moreover, there is no work-life balance. You may need to work for 16-18 hours a day to clinch the deals. Only one thing is pretty good here and that is the money. If you can stick to this culture, you will make huge money within few years.
•	Having said that, lets look at some data about salaries of investment banking professionals in India.


BANK:
DO INVESTMENT BANKERS HAVE SOCIAL LIVES?
Investment banking is often perceived as being synonym with long working hours, weekend work, and very little sleep. A natural question therefore often follows: do bankers have a social life?
Based on our experience, of course they do. London-based investment bankers tend to have much better hours than bankers in Hong Kong and New York, and more holidays; in general, Europeans are much more concerned about junior bankers' personal lives. However, do not expect to be home by 7 p.m. every day, and do not plan to enroll in Saturday yoga lessons. This is a view of what you life as a junior investment banker will be like:
Your social circle will quickly start to revolve around other junior bankers
It is a fact that most bankers' friends are themselves bankers. Your friends will often consist of other junior bankers in other teams (i.e. different industry groups, or departments) and junior bankers in other banks.
First, other bankers will be the only ones who can understand your hardworking lifestyle (working very long hours, weekend work, emergency calls to the office) and the only ones who can share with you "war stories" and rough experiences. If you start to talk about the pitchbook you had to re-print at 5 a.m. last night because another analyst messed up the minority interest calculation in the comps, you will only receive blank stares from non-banking friends. Since this job can be hard emotionally at times, you will need to share your experiences with people who understand you.
Second, they will be the only available ones. The social life of investment bankers consists of weekday dinners at the office, 15-minute coffee chats, weekend dinners that are always organised at the last minute because you can never plan in advance. If you cancel a dinner at the last minute, your banker friend will understand. If you have to rush back to your desk while having coffee, they will also understand. The harsh reality is that you will only be able to organise events at the last minute. And because banking is a fast-paced environment, you will most likely only have time to spend with people that are immediately next to you (ie. a few desks away).
But this is not as bad as it sounds. Making friends with other bankers is part of the experience, and this strong network will help you tremendously in your career going forward. You will also make some of your best friends during banking training and while on the job, because you will be able to share tough times together, and good times together (i.e. when you close a deal!), Also, for most bankers, when not on deals, you may have extensive "quiet" periods, and free weekends that will allow you to catch up with "non-banking" friends. The question is, are your non-banking friends nice enough to accept not seeing you several months in a row?
You can have a social life, but it will be well-organised and planned at the last minute
Bankers do have social lives, take holidays, go to museums, go to nice restaurants, etc. The main difference is that you will not be able to plan ahead very often, and you will not be able to take part in regular activities such as yoga classes, tennis classes, etc.
Dinners will be planned a few hours beforehand. Trips and holidays will be booked a week in advance at best, if you are lucky (except for Christmas and August holidays, which are typically very predictable). Be ready to be very flexible!
If you have a boyfriend/girlfriend, you will need to plan your time carefully and make him/her accept that you may have to cancel your plans at the last minute, and may not see each other much during the week, only on weekends, but sometimes not at all.
Quality of your social life will depend on your bank
In general, the higher-profile the bank, the less time you will have for social activities. Working at a Goldman Sachs or a Morgan Stanley means good experience and very good pay, but very little time to yourself. If you work for a BNP Paribas or a Commerzbank, you will have much more free time and much less weekend work, but you will probably not work on many deals and be paid (sometimes substantially) below the market rate.
Also, some banks have a better reputation than others in terms of work-life balance, and some teams within banks also have different lifestyles. Usually, this is mostly driven by the team size, the deal flow (success of the team), and the style of your team head.
Its not all bad: the UK is one of the most work-life balance friendly city
In the UK, you will typically get about 25 days holidays per year, and it is unlikely that you will be working every weekend, every week. Generally, people are more respectful of your personal life, and periods such as Christmas and the month of August are very quiet.
Therefore, compared to your Hong Kong or New York-based counterparts, you will be very lucky. They only get two weeks of holidays, and most of them are not able to take all of those days. In general, they also work much harder for much longer working hours. This is not related to the business itself, it is more related to the local culture.
There is hope: banking gets better every year
The more senior you are, the better the hours.
As a junior analyst, you will be slower with more things to learn. Also, because you are the most junior, you will be assigned the most tedious and time-consuming tasks. When you become more senior, you will be much faster, and you will "know the ropes", and will be able to manage your time much better.
As an associate, work become easier generally as you will have analysts to support you with your work, and you will typically start to leave earlier (though still not at 7 p.m.!). By the time you get to VP, things start to really slow down (getting closer to that 7 p.m., almost there). Finally, by the time you make it to Director and Managing Director, going home by 6 or 7 p.m. becomes the norm. The pressure for them is not on completing 100 tasks anymore, it is on generating deals and bringing in new clients

BANK:
What are the skills and qualifications required to be an investment banker in India?
Ad by IBM - India

Use Java, Watson & Node-RED.

Step 1: Build a training model. Step 2: Classify images using the model. #IBMCode.

Learn more at ibm.com
4 Answers

Nirmal Patel, Data Science, Big Data Analytics & FinTech Advisor at Imarticus (2018-present)
Answered 6d ago · Author has 986 answers and 385.8k answer views
We spend a lot of time at the Imarticus Learning on developing key Investment Banking skills and if youve read some of our prior posts on Investment Banking youll see that the skills are not just confined to number crunching or being a whiz kid to excel. You cant just be good at analysis, you also need to be good at presenting that analysis in a structured manner. You cant just be a great client management, you also need to be good at teamwork and have a good disposition – you spend a lot of time with your team. And finally, its not about just having these many skills, its also about showcasing them in the right way in both your resume and during your interview. So today, were going to spend some time on looking at ONE of the critical skills you need in investment banking as well as the best way to showcase those investment banking skills in an interview or in your resume.
Problem Solving and Analytical Skills
Are you tired of hearing this? What does it actually mean? Its essentially connecting the dots to help, ask the right questions, whose answers can either be the solution, or the tools to help you arrive at a solution or a set of solutions. Huh? Okay. One example is analyzing a twenty-year steel price data set and pulling out trends and insights that can then help you understand impacts steel prices, which will help you forecast steel prices for the next five years. Another example is being asked, how many litres of paint are sold in Mumbai every month? You use one data point, and a whole set of assumptions and questions to arrive at a number in a logical manner.
The great thing is you dont have to be a knot jockey, but you do need to be confident of your abilities to spot trends, do basic math fairly quickly, and be able to use information in an effective manner.
How do I showcase this skill in my resume?
A specialization in Finance or a degree in Engineering puts you in good stead from the get-go. And having prior work experience will obviously mean you already have many instances, but what if youre a fresher and did history or Commerce in your undergraduate. Well, weve got you covered. This is how you showcase problem-solving and analytic skills require in Investment Banking in your resume.
•	Any sort of summer internship, ideally a financial institution, but it could even be a cafe where you saw how a cafe was run.
•	Talk about a school or college project where you had to analyse large sets of data, ideally financial data, like an Industry or Company analysis.
•	Create a phantom portfolio (notional investments in stocks whose performance you track over a period of time) which will also showcase your enthusiasm for the stock market.
•	A treasurer of a school club where you were in charge of the budget, which will show your ability to understand funding and investing.
•	An instance where you put up a school/college production.
•	Case competitions you have been part of.
Try to write one line describing what each experience taught you.
Please see our post on Great Investment Banking Resumes
How do I show off this skill in an interview?
•	Have ready answers to the following questions: What would be the steps you would follow if you had to solve a problem Talk to me about a time when you fixed a problem? Always use examples to showcase your skill. For instance, if they want to know how you use logic to think through a problem, as an example. For instance, if I had to answer how many litres of paint are sold in Mumbai, I would first….
•	Practice Brain Teasers. For instance: You have 50 marbles (25 red marbles and 25 blue balls) and 2 buckets. How do you divide the marbles into the two buckets so as to maximize the probability of selecting a red marble if 1 marble is chosen from 1 of the buckets at random? Answer: First you must assume one of the two buckets is chosen at random and then one of the marbles from that bucket is chosen at random. You want to put 1 red marble in 1 of the buckets and all of the other 49 marbles in the other bucket. This gives you just slightly less than a 75% chance of having a red marble The math works as follows: Theres a 50% chance of selecting the bucket containing 1 marble and a 100% chance of selecting a red marble from that bucket. And a 50% chance of selecting the bucket containing 49 marbles with a ~48.9% (24/49) chance of selecting a red marble from that bucket. Total probability of selecting a red marble is (50% % 100%) + (50% * 49.5%) = 74.7%.
Practice basic calculations like addition, subtraction, division, fractions, and percentages.
Also, practice reading graphs. The recruiter will not ask you to do advanced equations but will expect you to be comfortable with numbers and charts

BANK:
How to Become an Investment Banker

When corporations and municipalities want to raise capital to fund their operation, they go to an investment bank for assistance. An investment banker works with these entities to underwrite, or find buyers for, securities like bonds or stock to raise the capital the organization needs.
In addition to underwriting securities, investment bankers can usher corporations through complex processes like initial public offerings or mergers and acquisitions. To do this successfully, they must be well-versed in the behavior of financial markets and in the legal requirements that investment banks and their clients must meet for each process.
What kind of training is required to become an investment banker?
Investment bankers come from a variety of backgrounds, but a strong foundation in mathematics is important. Prospective investment bankers may have bachelors degrees in finance, accounting, or mathematics, for example, but may come from other fields like computer science or physics as well.
Investment bankers receive a great deal of their training through their employer. Recent graduates of bachelors degree programs typically start in analyst roles and complete a training program before they begin their job. These training programs can last several weeks and introduce new analysts to principles of accounting, risk, markets, financial statement analysis, and financial modeling. Analysts also learn negotiation, communication, and presentation skills. After they complete their initial training, analysts often take part in continuing education that is also provided by their employer.
A good way for those interested in the field to gain experience and make professional contacts before landing a job is to complete an internship. Investment banks regularly take on undergraduate and graduate interns and provide them with training and mentorship. Interns typically perform the same kinds of duties that analysts and associates perform, including gathering data, working with financial models, and interacting with clients.
While entry-level investment banking analyst positions require only a bachelors degree, many investment bankers pursue graduate degrees. Master of Business Administration degrees (MBAs) are most common among investment bankers, but other graduate degrees, like law degrees, can be useful as well. Many schools offer graduate programs in financial mathematics, and a masters degree in this field can also be valuable for investment bankers.
Are there any certification or licensure requirements?
Once they are employed, investment bankers must register as a representative of their bank with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Depending on their job responsibilities, investment bankers must pass an examination on a specific “series” in order to qualify for registration.
Investment bankers can also pursue voluntary certifications like the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) credential offered by the CFA Institute. To become a CFA “charterholder,” one must have four years of investment work experience and complete the CFA program, which is a three-part course of study that covers investment valuation, company analysis, and portfolio management. CFA candidates must pass an examination at the end of each of the three levels of the program. The CFA program takes two to five years to complete.
How long does it take to become an investment banker?
One can become an investment banking analyst directly after earning a bachelors degree, but it can take two or more years of working experience plus a graduate degree to advance to associate status at an investment bank.
What does an investment banker earn?
The US Bureau of Labor Statistics groups investment bankers with securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents, and this group earned a median yearly salary of $71,720 in 2012. Investment bankers base salaries are often supplemented with bonuses from their employer, so ones earnings in this field can be quite high, reaching past $100,000 within a few years as an analyst.
What are the job prospects?
The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that employment of securities, commodities, and financial services sales agents, including investment bankers, will grow 11 percent between 2012 and 2020, which matches the average growth for all occupations over that time.
The BLS expects that, while there will be additional jobs, competition for positions will be strong, and that candidates with graduate degrees and voluntary certifications like the Chartered Financial Analyst certification offered by the CFA Institute will have the best prospects.
What are the long term career prospects for investment bankers?
Investment bankers often start their careers at the analyst level and, with experience and additional education, advance into associate positions. Others enter the field as associates after working in another industry and earning a graduate degree such as an MBA.
With experience, associates can become vice presidents at their banks, supervising analysts and associates and interacting more directly with clients. After some time as a vice president, investment bankers may then become directors or principals at their bank and further focus on building relationships with new and existing clients. One of the highest positions an investment banker can reach is managing director, and at this level they work almost exclusively on bringing in new business.
As investment bankers move up the hierarchy of their bank, their base salary increases, but their potential for bonus earnings increases much more.
How can I find a job as an investment banker?
To land a job as an investment banker, you must concentrate heavily on networking while still in school. Large investment banks recruit prospective analysts and associates from top business schools, and often fill these positions with interns who have worked with them as summer analysts or associates.
If you do not attend a highly-rated business school, you will need to work hard to build a network on your own by reaching out to family members, friends, acquaintances, professional associations, and your schools alumni. As your network grows, you will increase your chances of meeting someone who can offer you an opportunity to interview for a position.
How can I learn more about becoming an investment banker?
You can learn more about the requirements and training process to become an investment banker by visiting the websites of large investment banks like Goldman-Sachs and J.P. Morgan. These companies detail the various programs they offer for undergraduate students, graduate students, recent graduates, and experienced professionals.
If you are currently in college, you may be able to find someone in your schools alumni network who can talk to you about becoming an investment banker. Learning more through this process can also be a good way to build your professional network.

BANK:
How to Break into Investment Banking as an Engineer – If You Enjoy the Punishment
If you're new here, please click here to get my FREE 57-page investment banking recruiting guide - plus, get weekly updates so that you can break into investment banking. Thanks for visiting!

I thought that engineers would stop wanting to move into finance.
After all, companies like Google and Facebook now offer higher pay, better hours, and more interesting work than banks.
And students at top universities and business schools are increasingly interested in technology rather than finance.
But despite all that, some engineers still want to get into finance.
Youve probably landed on this article because youre in a similar position.
Ill explain how to do it here, but you should answer a critical question first: Are you sure you want to do this?
Why Do You Want to Do This?
Most engineers point to one of the following reasons to explain their desire to work in finance:
•	They want to make more money; theyve hit a “ceiling” in their current role.
•	They want better advancement opportunities.
•	They want more interesting, client-facing work.
•	They want to make a bigger impact on the world at large.
These are valid reasons for wanting to do something besides engineering, but theyre not great reasons for wanting to do investment banking, specifically.
In investment banking, you advise companies on financing deals and mergers and acquisitions.
If you have no interest in advising companies on transactions, which means spending a lot of time in PowerPoint, Excel, and Word as a junior banker, you should consider other options first.
For example, if youre bored of your current job and want to make more money:
•	Start a side business and make money from an app or simple software product.
•	Learn about the stock market and start making your own investments.
•	Become a contractor and offer coding or product management services to other companies.
•	Take the money youve saved up, learn about real estate, and start buying small single-family properties.
If you just want to “work in finance,” think about the other options outside of investment banking as well.
If you have deep industry knowledge (e.g., of the semiconductor industry) and you complete significant self-study, equity research might be an option.
If you want to apply your coding skills to finance, you could work in quant research, at a quant hedge fund, or in another sales & trading role.
Or if you want to invest in tech companies, venture capital is an option, though its actually tougher than IB in many cases.
Finally, you could also work at a tech company and move to a business or finance role there over time.
Entry Points into Banking
But if you want to ignore everything above, and youre convinced that you need to do investment banking, there are four main entry points into the industry:
1.	As an Undergrad – This one is the easiest and cheapest way to get in, but you must decide on IB very early. Recruiting now starts so early that if you havent decided on IB by the middle of your second year, you probably wont get in.
2.	As a Recent Grad – This one can also work, but your chances of moving directlyfrom an engineering role into investment banking are almost 0%. You almost always need something finance-related first, such as a stint at a Big 4 firm or valuation firm or a Masters in Finance degree.
3.	At the MBA Level – If youve been out of university for 2-3+ years, youll probably have to use a top MBA program to get in. But, again, your chances of going from “Engineer at Google” to “Investment Banker at Goldman Sachs” with nothing in between are almost 0%. You need a more relevant full-time role and/or a pre-MBA internship.
4.	Beyond the MBA Level – If youre well beyond the MBA level, you have almost no chance of getting into investment banking as an Analyst, Associate, or VP. But if you reach the senior executive level at a large company, you might be able to enter IB at the top levels or move into a field like venture capital or venture debt.
The key point is simple: If youre an engineer or technical person, you will not be able to get into IB at the last minute without prior internships or work experience.
You need a sequence of internships or other finance-related experience, regardless of your entry point.
You also need in-depth knowledge of accounting/finance, even if your degree had nothing to do with those subjects.
Bankers will be confident that you can do the math and attend to detail, but theyll be skeptical of your social skills and ability to burn the midnight oil.
They will also be skeptical of your interest in finance: If you want to do investment banking now, why didnt you get in earlier? Did you “get interested” a few months ago when you heard about your friends bonus? Or did you try to get in earlier and fail?
Telling Your Story
The same 4-point story structure applies; weve even made available a full template and example of how to tell your story from an engineering/technical background:
•	Engineer or Technical Major to IB – Sample “Story” Template and Example
You can use these points:
•	Beginning: Where youre from, your university, and your internships/activities. Insert a brief mention of some interest in finance at a younger age.
•	Spark: A banker you met, an internship project, or an activity or class that sparked your interest in finance.
•	Growing Interest: Networking with bankers, self-study of the technical side, stock-market investing, case competitions, etc.; also give a short example of how you can handle the hours.
•	The Future and Why Youre Here Today: You want to combine your engineering skill set with finance and advise companies on major transactions, ideally in an industry related to your field of engineering, such as TMT, industrials, or healthcare.
This same template applies for undergrads, recent grads, and MBA students because a degree doesnt change that much – you must be able to explain why you want to do IB without referencing your degree at all.
Networking
Networking is largely the same for engineers: You still use the alumni database, informational interviews, information sessions, and cold calls/cold emails to win interviews.
Please see the dozens of networking-related articles on this site for the tactics and strategies.
Ill just add one point here: You should probably not focus exclusively on tech-focused banks or groups (or aerospace/defense ones, healthcare ones, etc.).
As a career changer, you already face an uphill battle to get your foot in the door.
Focusing too much on a specific industry might kill your chances prematurely, especially if youre at a non-target university or business school.
You also shouldnt limit yourself to one type of bank, such as regional boutiques or middle-market firms.
The recruiting process is random, and even if you think you have no chance at the bulge brackets or elite boutiques, its still worth reaching out and speaking with a few bankers there.
Resumes
We have many resume templates on this site, and you should refer to them to write your own.
The #1 mistake engineers make is focusing too much on the technical details and not enough on the business results. We often see bullet points such as the following:
“Inspected clients customer support code and led migration from Linux 4.11 to Linux 4.12 by implementing support for 64-bit multi-core processors in assembly code and support for threaded processes in operating system kernel.”
You should focus on revenue generated, money saved, or time saved instead:
“Reviewed clients customer support system and optimized processes by 20%; saved client $10,000 and 10 hours of labor per week over first year.”
And if you start writing your resume and realize that you have nothing even remotely related to investment banking, you need to re-think your plans.
You can spin technical experience all you want, but it only does so much; bankers mostly care about:
•	The reputation of your university or business school.
•	Your grades and test scores.
•	The reputations of the companies you worked at and what you did there.
If you have a 3.0 GPA from an unknown state school and all technical internships, no amount of resume spinning will get you interviews at banks.
Interviews
We have dozens of articles on interviews, including ones on “fit” questions, technical questions, telling your story, and more.
Not that much is different for engineers, but you should be aware of a few points:
•	Yes, you need in-depth knowledge of accounting, valuation, and financial modeling. IB roles are still highly competitive, and if you dont know the technical side, bankers will assume youre not serious about the job.
Majoring in something different is not an excuse. If you cant learn the material independently, you dont have the discipline and drive required to get in.
•	Yes, you still need good grades (2:1 or above in the U.K., or 3.5 or above in the U.S. – and probably closer to 4.0 if youre at a non-target school).
“Engineering classes are harder” is a weak excuse, and bankers wont care about your explanations. If your GPA is low, they can select from thousands of other candidates.
•	They will probe you heavily on your ability to work long hours, your social skills, and your interest in finance.
Its best to answer these questions by citing examples of when you used these skills over extended time frames in the past.
For example, to prove that you can work long hours, tell a story about how you woke up at 5 AM, went to sports practice, attended classes, and then worked until 10 PM every day for a year.
Anyone can pull all-nighters for a week, but killing yourself for an entire year is a worthy accomplishment.
Its tough to “prove” that you have social skills, but you can come across as sociable by talking about your hobbies and interests.
Even if youre awkward or you get nervous speaking with people, you might be able to convey the opposite image if you talk up your activities.
What Does a Successful Engineer to Financier Look Like?
Here are two examples:
Example #1: The Undergrad
He started out majoring in aerospace engineering and did a first-year internship at Lockheed Martin.
He realized it wasnt for him, so in his second year, he switched to an accounting/finance degree and made aerospace engineering his minor.
He also interned at a local private equity firm and began networking months in advance of third-year summer internship recruiting.
In the summer after his second year, he interned at an independent valuation firm, and he kept networking on the side to win an IB summer offer at a bulge-bracket bank for the next year.
In the summer after his third year, he completed that internship and converted it into a full-time return offer.
Example #2: The MBA
She completed an undergraduate degree in biomedical engineering and worked in R&D at an orphan drug company after graduation.
After a year, she switched into a business development/sales role, and after another year, she moved to a Big 4 firm to conduct due diligence on pharmaceutical clients.
Then, she applied and won admission to a top MBA program. Before attending, she completed a pre-MBA internship at a healthcare-focused private equity firm.
She also began networking with business school alumni months before the school term began.
When recruiting kicked off, she won interviews with the major banks and ended up accepting a summer internship offer at an elite boutique, which she later converted into a full-time return offer.
Plan B Options
If you do everything above but do not get into investment banking, the worststrategy is to give up and go back to a pure engineering role.
If youre about to graduate, your best Plan B options are finance-related roles outside of investment banking.
For example, think about corporate finance rotational programs at tech companies, corporate banking, equity research, or a coding role at a hedge fund or trading firm.
Plan to work there for a year or two and then move into IB, perhaps using a Masters in Finance degree along the way.
If youre at the MBA level and did not win an investment banking offer, you could consider similar options, but it will be much harder to move into IB later on.
You might be able to take finance experience elsewhere and go to a tech-focused boutique or a small venture capital firm, but you will probably not be able to move to a large bank directly.
Finally, if youre well beyond the MBA level, more realistic options might be joining a VC/PE firm as an operational partner or “entrepreneur in residence” or joining an equity research team that needs deep subject matter expertise in a highly technical area.
Engineer to Financier?
I made this move – computer science to tech companies to investment banking – a long time ago.
But you would not be able to follow that same path today.
You need finance-related experience and solid accounting/finance knowledge before applying for IB roles, or you wont have a chance.
So, decide on your career change early on, or skip it altogether.
It might be “boring” to work at a big tech company and hit the pay ceiling, but youll have a pretty good life, and youll still earn more than 99% of the population.
And if you want to make more money, you can always build an app.

BANK:
“Why do I want to become an Investment Banker?”
If your answer is “Lots of money” “Sounds really great!”, thanks to the way Investment Bankers are portrayed in movies?
Sorry, but your motives are a bit skewed. Because, the road ahead as an Investment Banker is not a bed of roses.
For starters, you are looking at a 90-100 hour per week, always on, never off. Add to it, tremendous stress, and job losses at the first sign of a downturn.
On the brighter side, you have a high paying job, opportunity to interact and work with some of the brightest minds and companies on the globe, a high learning curve and the financial freedom of retiring early or starting a venture of your own.
So, are you sure about this? If the answer is “YES, this is what I wanted to do all my life!”, scroll ahead.
1. A Strong Foundation:

As an Engineer, you FIRST need to start with a strong foundation in the basics of Banking and Finance. This is a must have. The best way to get this, is take a good course – preferably online – which gives you a great overview of the fundamentals. You can explore FLIPs Banking and Finance Fundamentals course, here. The certification wont hurt on your CV, either!
2. Finance Degree OR Experience:

An MBA in Finance is considered the first step for anyone aspiring a career in Investment Banking. Remember: the application to openings ratio for freshers, is something like 5000: 1. So, ONLY a premier name works here. A T2 MBA isnt worth it.
Else, get relevant work experience. Global I Banks outsource their research and analysis to KPOs, that are either their own subsidiaries or complete third parties.
For instance, banks like Deutsche, J P Morgan and Barclays have their own KPO units based in India.  Independent KPOs are Copal Amba, E-Valueserve, etc.
These KPOs hire engineers every year as analysts – a couple of years of experience in such roles can help get into an I-Bank. If you opt for an MBA after this, even better.
3. Relevant Internships & Projects:

Now that youre working in a KPO or doing your MBA, Internships/Projects will equip you with tremendous learning and value to your profile.
4. Certifications:

Youve GOT to get at least one strong, I-Banking focused certification on your CV. Again, this will add CV points and boost your interview chances. The popular ones are: a CFA (be prepared for about Rs. 3 lakh for all 3 levels, though) and FLIP (https://www.learnwithflip.com/programs/investment-banking). Breaking into Wall Street (https://breakingintowallstreet.com/biws/homepage/) is also an option.
5. RESEARCH:

Having a clear background of the Investment Banking industry, is crucial. It WONT happen overnight. So, start your research right away.
This would help you in multiple things:
1.	A great interview prep – youll know key people, roles, major deals, industry trends – which will help you ace the interviews.
2.	To have resumes and cover notes tailored to each role/company.
3.	Networking with individuals currently working in these firms
6. A Winning Resume:

Youve got the ammunition now. A well-structured CV is now the key to that dream subject line – Your CV has been shortlisted for Personal Interview landing up in your inbox
A few pointers you need to keep in mind, for that Winning Resume:
1.	Throw the Technology & Engineering jargons out of the window. Your recruiter is not looking for terms like C++, Python and AUTOCAD on your resume.
2.	Focus on your tech projects impact on business and your role in it.
3.	Highlight the 3-4 key experiences you have gained through internships and full-time roles in Investment Banking – and those I- Banking certifications.
4.	Include a CUSTOMISED cover note, where feasible – why I-Banking, your experience/projects, certifications and resume highlights (ranks, achievements) NOT more than 10 lines, please.

BANK:
r Kamat on  September 5, 2014
Categories 
Tags 
If you are wondering how to become an investment banker in India or abroad, your friends probably told you that it helps to get an MBA from one of the best MBA colleges in the world that open the doors to investment banking jobs (Also read How to get into Goldman Sachs). But the best investment banking courses in India or abroad wont help if you dont have the right traits and attitude.
A former bulge bracket investment banker who prefers to go by his pen-name ibanker shares helpful tips that you can use to become an investment banker in India, UK, USA and pretty much everywhere else.
 
________________________________________
How to become an investment banker in India and abroad
by ibanker
An investment banker is one of the most fascinating characters of our time. A high-flying man or woman of finance with razor sharp mental ability, juggling billion dollar deals in fancy suits while traveling the world and making lots of money.
Thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of young people around the world dream of joining this league of extraordinary business people.
So youve decided that it is a path youd like to pursue and are committed to becoming one of these global jets-setters. Read on.
 
How I became an investment banker without the right degree and experience
I didnt have the typical profile investment banks sought from candidates. Before banking I worked for two tech startups. I did some development work in the Caribbean and the Middle East.
Whats more, I was always trying my hand at different things on the side. Little entrepreneurial ventures here and there. In fact, I had so many positions in my CV bank recruiters always worried Id join and leave within 6 months.
I even moved to Hollywood for nearly a year to pursue a career in film. No joke.
So when I first applied to investment banks I had no traction. I got rejected time and time again. But I was determined to get into banking. I was relentless and I spent time building relationships – one of, if not, the most important thing you can do. Eventually I found a back door.
After gaining deal experience within an investment bank, I set up my own investment company and I now do deals with clients from all over the world, including India.
In the paragraphs that follow, Ill provide some advice that will hopefully help you get there.
 
Believe that you can break into investment banking
First things first, you must get over any self-doubt.
“Do I have what it takes to become an investment banker?”
“Can I handle the investment banking job?
You do. You can.
Im not just saying this. I mean it 100%. Theres nothing magical about the craft of investment banking.
The hard part is breaking in.
Ive worked with people youd never in a million years think they had what it takes to become bankers.
When you run into an investment banker whos been in the business for at least a few years and you get impressed, always keep in mind that they very likely underwent a transformation.
They received training, got deal experience and have been surrounded by more professional people, through whom they learned a lot. Anyone in that position will change and become a better business person over time. You will too.
 
Havent studied at an Ivy League, Oxbridge, IIT, IIM, etc?
Id be lying if I told you that where you studied is irrelevant. The better the business school, the easier it is to break into the investment banking industry. BUT, its still difficult even if you went to the best school.
Where you studied isnt a make or break. Most students from top schools who chase the banking dream never get in. There arent enough positions available.
Whats more, when you look at the bios of most bankers you see that a significant proportion didnt go to the top schools.
I know many people who work in banking in financial centers like London, New York, Mumbai, Singapore, Los Angeles and more. Most didnt attend the top schools.
If you havent studied at a brand name school you just need to compensate for it in other ways.
No single path to become an investment banker
Theres no sequential set of steps you follow and then break into the investment banking business.
Just because Venkatesh broke in one way, Farhan got in another way and Bhupender made it using his own strategy, it doesnt mean youve got to follow one of them.
You need to chart your own path. Its like setting sail across the ocean…many paths can get you to your destination.
And you cant predict the trajectory because forces outside of your control (e.g. storm) can meet with you along the way.
 
The world isnt fair
Some of my friends were extended internships and investment banking jobs without having to do any work. Daddy knew this person. Mommy knew that person.
Thats life. Its not going to change anytime soon, if ever.
An extremely powerful recommendation: When you witness this phenomenon at work, do not get into the habit of blaming the system.
You must believe that you are in control of your fate. Otherwise, for every little bump you hit, and there will be many in life, youll play the blame game.
Most people love to blame. Makes them feel better because, according to that mechanism, its not their fault if things dont turn out the way they would like them to.
Dont blame and believe you can control your destiny. Its the only way youll achieve great things.
 
Failure is good
You learn so much from failures. Ever successful person, from finance to philanthropy, has had more than their fair share of it. Learn from those experiences.
Its better to act than do nothing – and remain boring!
Just because you read articles or watch television programmes that show the vast accomplishments of an individual dont think its all been a joy ride for them.
When things dont work out, remember that its temporary. Think about what you can take away from the experience.
Failure is experience. Get a lot of it.
 
The illusion of ‘busyness
In the early 20th century, an Italian named Vilfredo Pareto came up with whats become know as the Pareto Principle. He observed that, surprisingly, 80% of Italys land was owned by 20% of the people.
Different ways to look at this:
•	A small number of families own the majority of real estate in Mumbai
•	A small percentage of Bollywood actors make the big bucks
•	A small number of your irritating habits will end up embarrassing you the most
•	You catch my drift…
In short, cut out the 80% youre wasting time on and focus on the 20% that makes a difference. Most people keep doing the wrong things over and over.
Putting in hours isnt enough. Youve got to spend your time on the right things. Especially when chasing a banking job given the competition out there. Work smart.
So dont spend all your time reading about the best investment banks in India or otherwise. Get out there and meet with senior bankers face to face. Thats how you really learn about an institution.
Plus, you build relationships, which is key. The investment banking industry is a people-based business. A senior investment banker can open a door for you, if he or she detects drive and hunger, even though your application may not be perfect.
Most people lock themselves in a room and study investment banking interview questions for hours and hours doing nothing else. That wont get you a job. Yes, it will keep you busy but thats not your aim.
You must find that 20% (or less) that will give you an edge over the competition.
 
Show leadership
There are so many things you can do to stand out. For instance, if youre still in business school then you can establish and become the founder of a new society or other organization.
It can be focused on investment banking, finance or a related area. You can then use that entity to invite speakers (e.g. senior investment bankers) to come and present. It enables you to build a relationship with them.
Good luck!

BANK:
Is it possible to go into investment banking with an engineering degree?
Z e r o XRegistered UserPosts: 195Junior Member
03-25-2005 at 7:05 am  edited April 2005  in Engineering Majors
I heard that investment bankers can make alot of money(probably more than some engineers).

If you got an undergrad in engineering and a MBA, would you be able to become an investment banker.
Post edited by Z e r o X on April 2005
 ReplyShare on Facebook
«12345» 
Replies to: Is it possible to go into investment banking with an engineering degree?
dreamingRegistered UserPosts: 563Member
03-25-2005 at 7:06 am
that is truly possible. and many have done that so far.

also if you wanna make money, engineering is not a thing you want to do.
 ReplyShare on Facebook
#2
im_blueRegistered UserPosts: 2,142Senior Member
03-25-2005 at 7:24 am
Yes, investment bankers hire engineering majors, both with and without MBA degrees.
 ReplyShare on Facebook
•	#3
IlliniJBravoEchoRegistered UserPosts: 1,110Member
03-25-2005 at 7:50 am
So what are you planning on being a lawyer/business major/engineer/nontechnologist/investment banker. Well I think you have got your work cut out for you when you get to college. Because you're just going to have to major in everything.
 ReplyShare on Facebook
•	#4
Z e r o XRegistered UserPosts: 195Junior Member
03-25-2005 at 8:08 am
The targeted income level is $1000000 sometime within the career. It could be 9-10 years. You want to make a lot of money, really badly, and you're willing to work at it, and go into whatever specialty/area will make the most.

Right now investment bankers is the goal.

In I-Banking- I'll give you the benefit of having already obtained a summer internship or a bachelors degree entry level analyst position (which, btw, only about 5% of students achieve). Now consider that approx. 70% of analysts at these banks will get in to a top business school afterwards. In order to come back and be re-hired by your old firm, you would probably have to be in the top half of your business school class. Now you're working an 80-100 hour a week job as an associate, making 200k to start with. Its not our target salary, so, lets consider that about 5% of these associates will become managing directors (the first of the elite salary levels of 700-800k+).

Overall after undergraduate study - assuming you can even get an entry level job at a top i bank. 70%(go to bschool) x 50%(get re-hired) x 5% (become an MD) = .0175 ..

In i-banking .. 1.7 percent of these people can achieve the target income level.

So
If you want to make a lot of money, really badly, and you're willing to work at it. Engineering is by far the best bet. As 10% of engineering grads will go into specialties that allow them to make ridiculous amounts of money. This is one thing i really like about engineering. You only spend about 3 years "proving" yourself, getting into investment banking. After that its like you have a license to print money. You're controlling your destiny. In other professions, you have different "cuts" every few years where only a few advance, and everyone else has to stop. It takes 9 years in law to get a big law partner spot, perhaps 10 in medicine. In engineering, after 3 years (granted, perhaps 4), you'll be all but guaranteed a high paying job as an investment banker.

Comments?
 ReplyShare on Facebook
•	#5
boethianRegistered UserPosts: 139Junior Member
03-25-2005 at 7:21 pm
You need an MBA for associate and higher positions as an investment banker. For top money you basically have to attend a prestigious b-school because top firms recruit/hire from there exclusively. An engineering degree does not guarantee entrance to one of these schools, in fact it does very little. Of course it does not hurt you, but your goal isn't to not be hurt, so maybe you should maximize your chances to getting into a top b-school, rather than wasting your time on this engineering myth.
 ReplyShare on Facebook
•	#6
Penn15Registered UserPosts: 259Junior Member
03-25-2005 at 7:30 pm
"In engineering, after 3 years (granted, perhaps 4), you'll be all but guaranteed a high paying job as an investment banker."

Excuse me???

Which "high paying job" are you referring to? Do you seriously think that engineers can just springboard into an MD gig after 3 years of engineering?

But yes, many have gone into i-banking with little knowledge of finance (you just have to pass the simple interview questions). Because analyst = spreadsheets & powerpoint.


BANK:
The 10 ways to get a first job in an investment bank
by Sarah Butcher 02 October 2017

22
If you've tried applying for a job in an investment bank, you'll know that getting one isn't easy. You'll know that there are a lot more applicants than jobs (eg. 50:1), especially for the supposedly "sexy" jobs in the front office.  You should know too, therefore, that success takes persistence. You might fail once, you might fail twice, you might fail six times - but this doesn't mean you shouldn't keep on trying.
The truth is there's more than one way of getting a graduate job an investment bank. The route you choose will depend partly upon the area of the bank you want to get into - aspiring M&A bankers have different options to aspiring banking technologists, for example. But if you're really set on banking you shouldn't give up before you've exhausted them all.
Newsletter sign up
Get the latest career advice and insight from eFinancialCareers straight to your inbox
Sign up
1. Apply for internships during your bachelor's degree and get an offer of a full time job when you graduate
This is the standard method of getting a first job in an investment bank. While you're at university, you need complete as many investment banking internships as you conceivably can, starting in your first year.
In Europe, these first year internships are known as 'spring weeks.'  In the U.S. they're known as "sophomore internships." If you impress the banks' recruiters during these short first year internships, you will often be guaranteed a place to come back for 10 weeks during the summer holiday of your second year (a so-called "summer internship" or "summer analyst program.") And if you impress again during these summer internships, you should be offered a full time job when you graduate.
Simple.
Except not everyone makes it through this process. Not everyone "converts" their summer internship into a full time job - in some cases, the conversion rate can be as low as 26%.
If you don't make it through, you'll therefore have to try some other points on the list.
2. Apply for internships or graduate jobs during a Masters in Finance in course
These days, banks also like to hire juniors with Masters in Finance qualifications. This is especially so for positions in risk or sales and trading, although some M&A boutiques also hire Masters graduates.
If you're doing a Masters in Finance, watch where you study - banks have their preferred courses.  You're much more likely to get a job in Europe than the U.S. with a Masters, so also watch where you're applying.
If you have a Masters in Finance, you'll still join a bank as an analyst. Therefore, you'll usually still need to complete a summer internship. With most Masters in Finance courses only lasting for one year, it's advisable to complete this internship during the summer before the Masters even begins. In other words, you'll need to apply for internships during the final year of a bachelor's degree.
3. Keep on interning even after you've graduated 
What if you graduate from university and you're not doing a Masters and you don't have a banking job offer?
How about applying for further internships after you've left?
It used to be the case that students completed a single summer internship during which they received an offer to join an bank full time, or they didn't.
Not any more.
Nowadays, some of the best students applying for jobs in investment banks have completed multiple internships. More importantly, some have continued to work as interns even after they've graduated.  Plenty of banks now run "off-season" or autumn internships which are open to students who've already graduated. At the end of these internships, you can still get an offer to join full time.
4. Apply during a top MBA 
Banks employ fewer MBA graduates now than they used to be, but MBAs are still hired onto "associate programs," mostly for jobs in M&A and capital markets.  MBA graduates are also increasingly going into private wealth management, asset management or private equity.
As with Masters in Finance courses, banks are pretty fussy about MBAs. They like to hire students from top business schools. They also likely to hire students who've completed an 'MBA internship', which makes it a good idea to study a two year MBA so that you can complete an internship during the summer of your first year.
Lastly, the MBAs who are most successful at breaking into banking nowadays are often those who can bring knowledge specific to a particular industry. It's usual to study an MBA  after working for a few years. If you leave university, spend a few years working in healthcare, study an MBA and then approach banks with a view to working in a healthcare-focused M&A team, or a healthcare-focused private equity team, you could be in luck. You can therefore also apply to a bank after time in industry - although you're most likely to get in if you embellish your industry experience with an MBA.
5. Apply after completing an ACA qualification 
This only really applies in Europe and really on in the City of London, and then only during strong hiring markets. When things are going well and banks are short of experienced analysts to work in their M&A and equity research teams, they often raid the Big Four accounting firms for talent. Some banks, like Rothschild,  however, hire newly-qualified ACAs into M&A teams as a matter of course.
6. Apply after a PhD
As banks look to automate as many processes as possible, there's increasing demand for people with complex quantitative skills who can work in areas like machine learning.  J.P. Morgan, for example, hired Geoffrey Zweig, who has a PhD in computer science from Berkeley to run its machine learning unit last January. Goldman Sachs CFO Marty Chavez has a PhD from Stanford.
The PhDs banks prefer have usually studied specific subjects, like quantitative finance, maths, signal processing, or machine learning itself.
7. Apply after time in the army
Banks like J.P. Morgan, Barclays and Goldman Sachs run specialist programs for hiring ex-military veterans. Time in the army isn't a sure-fire route into an investment banking job, but it's definitely an established route in.
8. Apply after time in law
Before he became a trader and worked for Goldman Sachs, Lloyd Blankfein was a lawyer. On Wall Street, law was traditionally a good route into front office investment banking division (IBD) jobs. Robert Kindler, global head of M&A at Morgan Stanley, spent 20 years at US law firm Cravath Swaine & Moore before moving into M&A in 2000, for example.
9. Apply after some time on consulting 
Banks hire in outsiders to help them work on strategy. If you're a strategy consultant who specializes in the financial sector, you may be able to get an internal strategy job in an investment bank. Equally, if you've spent time working on regulatory implementation with a consulting firm, you could get a job implementing regulations internally with banks.
10. Apply through your 'network' 
Ok, networking and nepotism aren't as big as they used to be in investment banking - particularly since the Chinese 'princelings' scandal. But having family, or friends, or alumni, to vouch for you still helps. One of Goldman Sachs' top M&A bankers in the UK is the son of Martin Sorrell, the advertising mogul. Both of his brothers have worked for the firm too. In most cases, however, networking pure and simple won't get you into a big firm - you'll usually have to start at a smaller name and try working your way up.

BANK:
To succeed as a corporate investment banker, you'll need a keen financial mind and an understanding of how money is made and invested
As a corporate investment banker, you'll provide a range of financial services to companies, institutions and governments. You'll manage corporate, strategic and financial opportunities, including:
•	mergers
•	acquisitions
•	bonds and shares
•	lending
•	privatisations
•	initial public offerings (IPO).
You may also advise and lead management buyouts, raise capital, provide strategic advice to clients and identify and secure new deals.
Types of corporate investment banker
Many investment banks deal in three main areas:
•	corporate finance - involves providing specialist knowledge and advice on mergers and acquisitions, assisting clients with expansion to increase profitability, safeguard market position, diversify and so on. You could manage the transaction process, assessing the target organisation and the impact of the deal. This involves knowledge of legal and regulatory issues, in addition to sound financial knowledge and an in-depth understanding of the client's industry.
•	debt capital markets - this involves working with lenders such as financial institutions, agencies and public and private companies in order to design and restructure debt obligations.
•	equity capital markets - involves advising clients on how much capital to raise, from where and when, through research and analysis of products and markets.
Responsibilities
The main role of a corporate investment banker is to advise companies, institutions and governments on how to achieve their financial goals and implement long and short-term financial plans.
You will work in dedicated teams, focusing on specific transactions or market sectors. Corporate investment bankers also work alongside other related professionals such as lawyers and accountants. A typical corporate finance deal involves two stages:
•	origination - assessing a deal's desirability, which is sometimes an innovative idea from the bank rather than the client. Financial models are used to simulate possible outcomes. This requires a deep understanding of a sector.
•	execution - structuring and negotiating the detailed terms of a deal, often in liaison with other professionals.
Although dealing with different, specific business areas, project teams liaise with one another during the two phases of a deal in order to obtain relevant specialist information and market intelligence.
Typical activities include:
•	thoroughly researching market conditions and developments
•	identifying new business opportunities
•	carrying out financial modelling, then developing and presenting appropriate financial solutions to clients
•	liaising with the chief executive and chief finance officers of large organisations
•	co-ordinating teams of professionals, including accountants, lawyers and PR consultants and working closely with them.
Salary
•	Average starting salaries for corporate investment bankers are around £30,000 to £40,000.
•	After three or more years, this rises to up to £50,000.
•	Those with significant experience may earn a base salary of around £150,000.
Pay is often performance related, and bonuses can sometimes be four or more times higher than your base salary. The environment is strongly meritocratic. Some employers offer welcome bonuses in the region of £2,000 to £5,000.
Income figures are intended as a guide only.
Working hours
Hours are regularly long and often unsocial. You'll be expected to work at the weekend as deals approach crucial stages - fifteen hour days are not unusual, and you could work up to 100 hours a week in busy periods.
What to expect
•	Investment banks are increasingly keen to attract a diverse workforce. Most have internal support networks for under-represented groups. A number of banks are members of the Stonewall Diversity Champions programme.
•	The working environment can be extremely stressful as high expectations for targets are set. The industry is also strongly connected to the economy, so job availability and the amount of job losses fluctuates depending on how healthy the economy is.
•	The main financial centres are New York and London, followed by major European cities such as Frankfurt and Paris. UK-based positions are almost exclusively in London.
•	Many investment banks have global offices and can offer you the chance to work overseas within the first two years. Once qualified, you may spend a significant amount of time working abroad.

BANK:
How to open a bank account in the United Kingdom
 18.04.16
 
 9 minute read
 
Tagged: 
•	Life Abroad
Share 
Whether youre thinking of moving to the UK or youve arrived there already, at some point youre going to need a bank account. In the past, opening a bank account was very difficult if you were new to the UK. Thankfully, these days, it has become slightly easier. Heres how to go about it.
What Documents Do I Need?
In order to open a UK bank account, you will need two documents: one to prove your identity and one to prove your address. This applies both in branch and online. Proving your identity is simple. You just need your passport, driving licence or identity card (if youre an EU national). Youll also have to prove your address by providing another document.
Every bank has its own list of what documents are acceptable as proof of address. Broadly speaking, however, these include:
•	a tenancy agreement or mortgage statement;
•	a recent electricity or gas bill (less than 3 months old);
•	a recent (less than 3 months old) bank or credit card statement thats not printed off the internet; or
•	a current council tax bill.
Of course, if youre new to the UK, you probably dont have any of the documents on this list. Luckily, in recent years, banks have become a bit more flexible in terms of what documents they will accept as proof of address.
If youre in the UK to study, for example, many banks will accept a letter from your Universitys admissions office confirming your address.
Many banks will also accept a letter from Jobcentre Plus confirming your National Insurance number or even a letter from your employer, as long as its less than three months old. There is also another way. Before you leave for the UK, go to your bank and ask them to change your correspondence address to your UK address. You may also be able to do this via internet banking.
Once youve changed your address, ask your bank to send a bank statement to your new address by post, and youll have a document that proves your UK address.
Can I Open A Bank Account Before I Arrive In The UK?

Yes, you can. Your home bank may be able to set up an account for you if it has a correspondent banking relationship with a British bank. Many major UK banks also have so-called ‘international accounts. These are designed specifically for non-residents, so theyre a great option if you dont have the documents to prove your UK address. In fact, you can even apply for an international account online. Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and NatWest all offer international bank accounts.
However, opening a bank account from abroad or an international account may not be the right choice for you. Very often, you will have to make a big initial deposit and commit to paying in a minimum amount of money each month. Some banks will also charge you a monthly fee in addition to these requirements. This can make your bank account expensive to open and run, especially if you still dont have a job. There may also be other restrictions.
For instance, you may not be able to close the account and switch to a better deal until a set period of time expires.
The TransferWise Borderless account. For business without borders.

Old-world bank accounts only work properly in one country. They hold money only in one currency. And it gets expensive when you try to use them across borders. TransferWise's new Borderless accounts solve all of this.
Now you can send, receive and organise your money internationally, without crazy fees or even-crazier exchange rates – just a small, fair charge when your money moves between currencies.
Which Bank Is Best For My Needs?
Unfortunately, there is no straightforward answer to this question. The banking industry in the UK is very competitive, and many banks have special products designed to attract specific types of customer.
This is clearly great news. Whether youre a student, a professional or a business, youre bound to find something to suit your needs. That said, you will also need to take your personal circumstances into consideration.
Things To Consider When Choosing a Bank
Because youre new to the UK, you have a limited credit history and not much documentation. Some banks are strict with their requirements, so opening a bank account with them will be difficult.
Its usually easier to open an account with one of the UKs largest banks - Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC or RBS/NatWest. These banks have been in business for a long time and are very financially strong. They also have a lot of experience dealing with foreigners, so they are a bit more understanding of your situation and flexible with their requirements.
Your nationality will also play an important role. Its probably easier to open a bank account if you are an EU national than when youre from a country outside the EU. Either way, its a good idea to get in touch with customer support before you try opening an account. That way, you can get more information and ask questions about any difficulties you may have.
The Big Four UK Banks
There are more than ten retail banks in the UK, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. However, the biggest four UK banks are Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and RBS/NatWest. Lets have a look at what each of them have to offer.
Barclays
Barclays is one of the oldest banks in the UK; and has more than 1500 branches around the country. Its also probably one of the easiest banks to open an account with if youre new to the UK. In fact, you can even pre-apply for an account online before you arrive in the UK.
The account is free and comes with a contactless visa debit card as standard. However, you wont be able to use your account immediately. Once youre in the UK, you have to visit a branch with your reference number, passport and proof of address in order to activate the account. Barclays also has special accounts for students and businesses.
The international student account is free and offers cashback from various shops as well as a dedicated service that helps you build your CV and improve your interview skills. You can also upgrade your basic bank account with student additions. These include a free overdraft of up to £ 3, 000 for three years and a contactless debit card. Barclays business account is free for the first year and comes with a choice of financing options, including planned overdraft and credit cards. You can get in touch with customer support via a live chat, where you can discuss the details of your application and ask questions in real time.
Lloyds
Lloyds is the largest provider of current accounts in the UK, and has about 1300 branches throughout the country. Opening a bank account is very easy, even if you have just arrived in the UK.
In fact, Lloyds has a special new to the UK account which you can normally open with just your passport or identity card (if youre an EU citizen). The account is free and comes with a contactless visa debit card as standard.
Lloyds also has an account especially for students. This has a free overdraft of up to £1,500 for three years and an optional credit card with a minimum limit of £500. You can also open a business account. Depending on the size of your business, there are three accounts to choose from. However, all are free for the first 18 months. Youll also get a range of business tools, including accounting software and legal assistance at a reduced price.
HSBC
HSBC has more than 1100 branches around England and Wales, but a lower number in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Of course, HSBCs biggest advantage is that it operates in more than 80 countries around the world. If you bank with HSBC in your home country, they can help you set up an account in the UK before you get here.
The basic current account includes free telephone and internet banking and comes with a visa debit card. However, whether you get a contactless card will depend on your individual circumstances. You may also have to undergo a credit check before opening your account.
With a free overdraft of £3,000 per year for three years and 2% in-credit interest on the first £1,000, HSBCs student account is one of the best out there.
If you want to open a business account, there is a range of business bank accounts to choose from. All are free for the first 18 months and include perks such as a dedicated relationship manager to help you build your business and a knowledge centre with training articles and videos.
RBS/NatWest
The RBS Group owns the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest. Because theyre part of the same group, both the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest have broadly similar products. However, most of the Royal Bank of Scotlands 700 branches are located in Scotland, whilst NatWest has over 1,400 branches all over the UK. NatWests Select current account is free to use and comes with a contactless visa debit card as standard. Youll also get access to an emergency cash service, so you can withdraw money from your account using just a security code if your card is lost or stolen.
NatWest also has excellent student and business accounts. If youre a student, you will get a free overdraft of up to £2,000 for three years as well as a 33% discount on coach travel with National Express.
NatWest has 4 business accounts to choose from, depending on the size of your business. Even if youre just starting your business, youll get free banking for 2 years, a free business credit card for the first 12 months and a free £500 overdraft for the first year. You can contact customer support via a live chat, where you can discuss the details of your application and ask any questions in real time.
Other Banks Worth Looking Into
While Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and RBS/NatWest are the four biggest banks in the UK, there are also other banks you can check. TSB is quickly gaining a reputation as one of the best banks in the UK. Its quite easy to open an account, even if youre new to the UK; and the Classic Plus account has some great perks. These include 5% interest each month on the first £2,000 in your account and 5% cashback each month on your first £100 contactless payments. The student account has a free overdraft of up to £1,500 for three years.
Santander is very popular because of its 1|2|3| Account. This offers up to 3% cashback on household bills and 3% interest on balances between £3,000 and £20,000. Unfortunately, youll need to undergo a credit check when you apply for this account, so if youre new to the UK you probably wont qualify. However, once youve been in the UK for a while (perhaps a year or so), its a good idea to look at it.
Of course, its always best to look at what different banks have to offer and see who has the best deal. Dont commit to a product without at least having a look at what else is out there.
What Are The Costs?
You can get a basic current account at no monthly cost from most high street banks. This should be more than enough for your everyday banking needs.
Most banks also have premium accounts that offer additional benefits such as cashback on household bills, in-credit interest and insurance. However, these accounts will often have monthly fees and minimum eligibility requirements; and you may not qualify if youre new to the UK. Youll also need to be careful to stay in credit. Unless you have a planned overdraftfacility, your bank may charge large fees if you withdraw more money than you have in your account. Its always a good idea to read through your banks terms and conditions. That way, youll avoid any nasty surprises.
ATM Fees
Withdrawing money from an ATM is free if you use one of your banks ATM machines. Many banks also offer free cash withdrawals even if youre not a customer.
However, some ATM machines arent free; and can charge you between £1.50 and £3 per transaction. If youre not using one of your banks ATM machines, check the machine first. Many free ATM machines will state that they are free. Similarly, some paid machines will warn you about charges before you can complete the transaction.
Using an ATM outside the UK is never free. Many banks will charge a non-sterling transaction fee, which can be as high as 2.99% per transaction. Some banks will also charge a cash withdrawal fee in addition to the non-sterling transaction fee.
More importantly, if a foreign ATM asks you which currency it should charge you in, always choose to be charged in the local currency. If you dont, youll get an unfavourable exchange rate plus the fees charged by your UK bank.

BANK: How to open a bank account in the United Kingdom
 18.04.16
 
 9 minute read
 
Tagged: 
•	Life Abroad
Share 
Whether youre thinking of moving to the UK or youve arrived there already, at some point youre going to need a bank account. In the past, opening a bank account was very difficult if you were new to the UK. Thankfully, these days, it has become slightly easier. Heres how to go about it.
What Documents Do I Need?
In order to open a UK bank account, you will need two documents: one to prove your identity and one to prove your address. This applies both in branch and online. Proving your identity is simple. You just need your passport, driving licence or identity card (if youre an EU national). Youll also have to prove your address by providing another document.
Every bank has its own list of what documents are acceptable as proof of address. Broadly speaking, however, these include:
•	a tenancy agreement or mortgage statement;
•	a recent electricity or gas bill (less than 3 months old);
•	a recent (less than 3 months old) bank or credit card statement thats not printed off the internet; or
•	a current council tax bill.
Of course, if youre new to the UK, you probably dont have any of the documents on this list. Luckily, in recent years, banks have become a bit more flexible in terms of what documents they will accept as proof of address.
If youre in the UK to study, for example, many banks will accept a letter from your Universitys admissions office confirming your address.
Many banks will also accept a letter from Jobcentre Plus confirming your National Insurance number or even a letter from your employer, as long as its less than three months old. There is also another way. Before you leave for the UK, go to your bank and ask them to change your correspondence address to your UK address. You may also be able to do this via internet banking.
Once youve changed your address, ask your bank to send a bank statement to your new address by post, and youll have a document that proves your UK address.
Can I Open A Bank Account Before I Arrive In The UK?

Yes, you can. Your home bank may be able to set up an account for you if it has a correspondent banking relationship with a British bank. Many major UK banks also have so-called ‘international accounts. These are designed specifically for non-residents, so theyre a great option if you dont have the documents to prove your UK address. In fact, you can even apply for an international account online. Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and NatWest all offer international bank accounts.
However, opening a bank account from abroad or an international account may not be the right choice for you. Very often, you will have to make a big initial deposit and commit to paying in a minimum amount of money each month. Some banks will also charge you a monthly fee in addition to these requirements. This can make your bank account expensive to open and run, especially if you still dont have a job. There may also be other restrictions.
For instance, you may not be able to close the account and switch to a better deal until a set period of time expires.
The TransferWise Borderless account. For business without borders.

Old-world bank accounts only work properly in one country. They hold money only in one currency. And it gets expensive when you try to use them across borders. TransferWise's new Borderless accounts solve all of this.
Now you can send, receive and organise your money internationally, without crazy fees or even-crazier exchange rates – just a small, fair charge when your money moves between currencies.
Which Bank Is Best For My Needs?
Unfortunately, there is no straightforward answer to this question. The banking industry in the UK is very competitive, and many banks have special products designed to attract specific types of customer.
This is clearly great news. Whether youre a student, a professional or a business, youre bound to find something to suit your needs. That said, you will also need to take your personal circumstances into consideration.
Things To Consider When Choosing a Bank
Because youre new to the UK, you have a limited credit history and not much documentation. Some banks are strict with their requirements, so opening a bank account with them will be difficult.
Its usually easier to open an account with one of the UKs largest banks - Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC or RBS/NatWest. These banks have been in business for a long time and are very financially strong. They also have a lot of experience dealing with foreigners, so they are a bit more understanding of your situation and flexible with their requirements.
Your nationality will also play an important role. Its probably easier to open a bank account if you are an EU national than when youre from a country outside the EU. Either way, its a good idea to get in touch with customer support before you try opening an account. That way, you can get more information and ask questions about any difficulties you may have.
The Big Four UK Banks
There are more than ten retail banks in the UK, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. However, the biggest four UK banks are Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and RBS/NatWest. Lets have a look at what each of them have to offer.
Barclays
Barclays is one of the oldest banks in the UK; and has more than 1500 branches around the country. Its also probably one of the easiest banks to open an account with if youre new to the UK. In fact, you can even pre-apply for an account online before you arrive in the UK.
The account is free and comes with a contactless visa debit card as standard. However, you wont be able to use your account immediately. Once youre in the UK, you have to visit a branch with your reference number, passport and proof of address in order to activate the account. Barclays also has special accounts for students and businesses.
The international student account is free and offers cashback from various shops as well as a dedicated service that helps you build your CV and improve your interview skills. You can also upgrade your basic bank account with student additions. These include a free overdraft of up to £ 3, 000 for three years and a contactless debit card. Barclays business account is free for the first year and comes with a choice of financing options, including planned overdraft and credit cards. You can get in touch with customer support via a live chat, where you can discuss the details of your application and ask questions in real time.
Lloyds
Lloyds is the largest provider of current accounts in the UK, and has about 1300 branches throughout the country. Opening a bank account is very easy, even if you have just arrived in the UK.
In fact, Lloyds has a special new to the UK account which you can normally open with just your passport or identity card (if youre an EU citizen). The account is free and comes with a contactless visa debit card as standard.
Lloyds also has an account especially for students. This has a free overdraft of up to £1,500 for three years and an optional credit card with a minimum limit of £500. You can also open a business account. Depending on the size of your business, there are three accounts to choose from. However, all are free for the first 18 months. Youll also get a range of business tools, including accounting software and legal assistance at a reduced price.
HSBC
HSBC has more than 1100 branches around England and Wales, but a lower number in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Of course, HSBCs biggest advantage is that it operates in more than 80 countries around the world. If you bank with HSBC in your home country, they can help you set up an account in the UK before you get here.
The basic current account includes free telephone and internet banking and comes with a visa debit card. However, whether you get a contactless card will depend on your individual circumstances. You may also have to undergo a credit check before opening your account.
With a free overdraft of £3,000 per year for three years and 2% in-credit interest on the first £1,000, HSBCs student account is one of the best out there.
If you want to open a business account, there is a range of business bank accounts to choose from. All are free for the first 18 months and include perks such as a dedicated relationship manager to help you build your business and a knowledge centre with training articles and videos.
RBS/NatWest
The RBS Group owns the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest. Because theyre part of the same group, both the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest have broadly similar products. However, most of the Royal Bank of Scotlands 700 branches are located in Scotland, whilst NatWest has over 1,400 branches all over the UK. NatWests Select current account is free to use and comes with a contactless visa debit card as standard. Youll also get access to an emergency cash service, so you can withdraw money from your account using just a security code if your card is lost or stolen.
NatWest also has excellent student and business accounts. If youre a student, you will get a free overdraft of up to £2,000 for three years as well as a 33% discount on coach travel with National Express.
NatWest has 4 business accounts to choose from, depending on the size of your business. Even if youre just starting your business, youll get free banking for 2 years, a free business credit card for the first 12 months and a free £500 overdraft for the first year. You can contact customer support via a live chat, where you can discuss the details of your application and ask any questions in real time.
Other Banks Worth Looking Into
While Barclays, Lloyds, HSBC and RBS/NatWest are the four biggest banks in the UK, there are also other banks you can check. TSB is quickly gaining a reputation as one of the best banks in the UK. Its quite easy to open an account, even if youre new to the UK; and the Classic Plus account has some great perks. These include 5% interest each month on the first £2,000 in your account and 5% cashback each month on your first £100 contactless payments. The student account has a free overdraft of up to £1,500 for three years.
Santander is very popular because of its 1|2|3| Account. This offers up to 3% cashback on household bills and 3% interest on balances between £3,000 and £20,000. Unfortunately, youll need to undergo a credit check when you apply for this account, so if youre new to the UK you probably wont qualify. However, once youve been in the UK for a while (perhaps a year or so), its a good idea to look at it.
Of course, its always best to look at what different banks have to offer and see who has the best deal. Dont commit to a product without at least having a look at what else is out there.
What Are The Costs?
You can get a basic current account at no monthly cost from most high street banks. This should be more than enough for your everyday banking needs.
Most banks also have premium accounts that offer additional benefits such as cashback on household bills, in-credit interest and insurance. However, these accounts will often have monthly fees and minimum eligibility requirements; and you may not qualify if youre new to the UK. Youll also need to be careful to stay in credit. Unless you have a planned overdraftfacility, your bank may charge large fees if you withdraw more money than you have in your account. Its always a good idea to read through your banks terms and conditions. That way, youll avoid any nasty surprises.
ATM Fees
Withdrawing money from an ATM is free if you use one of your banks ATM machines. Many banks also offer free cash withdrawals even if youre not a customer.
However, some ATM machines arent free; and can charge you between £1.50 and £3 per transaction. If youre not using one of your banks ATM machines, check the machine first. Many free ATM machines will state that they are free. Similarly, some paid machines will warn you about charges before you can complete the transaction.
Using an ATM outside the UK is never free. Many banks will charge a non-sterling transaction fee, which can be as high as 2.99% per transaction. Some banks will also charge a cash withdrawal fee in addition to the non-sterling transaction fee.
More importantly, if a foreign ATM asks you which currency it should charge you in, always choose to be charged in the local currency. If you dont, youll get an unfavourable exchange rate plus the fees charged by your UK bank.




BANK:
How to Start a Bank
by Robert Shaftoe - Updated July 09, 2018

You may want to start a bank if you feel that your local market is underserved or dominated by large mega-banks that offer poor customer service. The process is long and complex, but banks can offer consistent, high returns on equity while providing a valuable service for your community.
Obtaining Charter to Start a Bank
You can obtain a federal charter through the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, and a state charter from your state's banking commission, or both. Part of the process of obtaining a federal charter is demonstrating to the Comptroller of Currency that your bank will be viable for the long-term, and operate conservatively, in a manner that highlights a focus on safeguarding customer deposits. The decision as to which charters to obtain will affect your bank's regulatory burden, compliance costs, and range of permissible activities.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Any bank operating domestically needs to obtain deposit insurance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This requires completing the FDIC Application Pursuant to Section 19, which can be downloaded via the FDIC web site. You must also submit a mission statement, a business plan that includes three-year financial projections, and a comprehensive list of the bank's planned policies for bank operations such as extending loans and making investments. The FDIC requires that those looking to start a bank also submit these documents concurrently with the relevant state banking commission. Upon approval, FDIC insurance coverage remains for seven years.


BANK:
How To Start Your Own Bank
950
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	Rebecca HarringtonHuffington Post
Starting a bank sounds like an impossible Gilded Age enterprise; more befitting of a Rockefeller than today's small business owner. But it's not as impossible as one might think -- or as risky.
According to Smart Money.com, "the three-year failure rate for new banks is less than one in 1,000," which, compared with a "60 percent failure rate for new restaurants," is not so horrible. The profits are not too shabby either. The site reports: "6,770 community banks earned $67 billion over the past five years."
In a recent Wall Street Journal interview, even Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says that he would start a bank -- if he were 50 years younger.
Inspired by the Move Your Money campaign, the Huffington Post is investigating different options to make banking more local and personal. For enterprising individuals, one way to make your banking experience more individual could be to start your own. Here are some tips on how to get started.
Identify a Need
One of the first things any prospective small business owner must assess is the need for his or her business in the community. Being a bank owner is no exception.
When starting Global Trust Bank in Mountain View California, James Wall analyzed his neighborhood to see if it presented a need.
"The community banks in the general geography are all gone," said Wall, president and CEO of Global Trust Bank. Global Trust was situated in Silicon Valley and many of the small banks in the area have recently been bought up by big conglomerates. That left a hole in the banking community which Wall and his partners were only too happy to fill.
Global Trust Bank opened on December 3, 2008.
"The customer has the ability to walk in the door and meet face-to-face with the senior executives and get decisions made on the spot" says Wall. "It's one-stop shopping for very high-quality personal service."
Capital and Regulation
Generally banks need about $12 to 20 million in capital to get started. Many community banks are able to raise that money locally. Mike Schultz, the CEO of Harmony Bank in New Jersey, found that 90% of the capital he raised came from within the community. In Harmony Bank's case the board of directors was made up of business leaders from within the community, including a 40-year-old law firm, a construction company and an accounting firm.
Once capital is assembled, the process is hardly finished. The application to the regulatory agencies is an arduous process, especially in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Community bank applications have slowed since the recession.
"The regulators have gotten much more strict in their review of applications," says Wall. "It's probably harder today to get a bank approved than it would have been a couple of years ago."
Once the regulatory approval process is over, however, the bank is free to go into business.
Benefits to Community Banking
Richard Whitsell, president & CEO of Fresno First Bank, has started three community banks -- or as they call them in the industry, de novo banks (from the Latin for "new"). Whitsell used to work at Bank of America but, after a long career there, he needed a change.
"[I wanted to] get closer to real banking, and making real decisions and having an impact on the community in which we live," Whitsell reflects.
Currently Whitsell has 22 employees. He sits on the same floor as the bank's transactions and enjoys having a direct impact on the community he resides in.
"We really do create an economic force in the communities that we serve," says Whitsell.

BANK:
How To Start Your Own Bank
950
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	Rebecca HarringtonHuffington Post
Starting a bank sounds like an impossible Gilded Age enterprise; more befitting of a Rockefeller than today's small business owner. But it's not as impossible as one might think -- or as risky.
According to Smart Money.com, "the three-year failure rate for new banks is less than one in 1,000," which, compared with a "60 percent failure rate for new restaurants," is not so horrible. The profits are not too shabby either. The site reports: "6,770 community banks earned $67 billion over the past five years."
In a recent Wall Street Journal interview, even Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says that he would start a bank -- if he were 50 years younger.
Inspired by the Move Your Money campaign, the Huffington Post is investigating different options to make banking more local and personal. For enterprising individuals, one way to make your banking experience more individual could be to start your own. Here are some tips on how to get started.
Identify a Need
One of the first things any prospective small business owner must assess is the need for his or her business in the community. Being a bank owner is no exception.
When starting Global Trust Bank in Mountain View California, James Wall analyzed his neighborhood to see if it presented a need.
"The community banks in the general geography are all gone," said Wall, president and CEO of Global Trust Bank. Global Trust was situated in Silicon Valley and many of the small banks in the area have recently been bought up by big conglomerates. That left a hole in the banking community which Wall and his partners were only too happy to fill.
Global Trust Bank opened on December 3, 2008.
"The customer has the ability to walk in the door and meet face-to-face with the senior executives and get decisions made on the spot" says Wall. "It's one-stop shopping for very high-quality personal service."
Capital and Regulation
Generally banks need about $12 to 20 million in capital to get started. Many community banks are able to raise that money locally. Mike Schultz, the CEO of Harmony Bank in New Jersey, found that 90% of the capital he raised came from within the community. In Harmony Bank's case the board of directors was made up of business leaders from within the community, including a 40-year-old law firm, a construction company and an accounting firm.
Once capital is assembled, the process is hardly finished. The application to the regulatory agencies is an arduous process, especially in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Community bank applications have slowed since the recession.
"The regulators have gotten much more strict in their review of applications," says Wall. "It's probably harder today to get a bank approved than it would have been a couple of years ago."
Once the regulatory approval process is over, however, the bank is free to go into business.
Benefits to Community Banking
Richard Whitsell, president & CEO of Fresno First Bank, has started three community banks -- or as they call them in the industry, de novo banks (from the Latin for "new"). Whitsell used to work at Bank of America but, after a long career there, he needed a change.
"[I wanted to] get closer to real banking, and making real decisions and having an impact on the community in which we live," Whitsell reflects.
Currently Whitsell has 22 employees. He sits on the same floor as the bank's transactions and enjoys having a direct impact on the community he resides in.
"We really do create an economic force in the communities that we serve," says Whitsell.

BANK:
SPECTATOR MONEY - FEATURES
How to start your own bank
Launching a new one is easier than before...but still requires an experienced team with plenty of patience
Camilla Swift
 


Camilla Swift
4 March 2017
9:00 AM

How on earth do you ‘start a bank? It sounds like a nigh-on impossible project. Yet in the past few years the UK has seen a flourishing of start-up ‘challenger banks – from the likes of customer-friendly Metro Bank, which advertises its 48 branches as ‘stores that are open when it suits you, to small-corporate lenders such as Aldermore and OakNorth, to mobile-app-based Atom Bank (‘The future of banking, available today). Theres even one called CivilisedBank. This is all surely a good reason for the traditional high street banks, whose millions of customers are habitually dissatisfied, to feel nervous. But if new banks are popping up all over the place, how do you go about launching another one with a distinctive market appeal?
In 2013, Graeme Hartop left his job as managing director of the banking arm of the Scottish Widows investment group. He had been headhunted by his former boss, Ray Entwhistle, whose plan was to do something no one had done in the UK for more than 30 years — open a new ‘private bank offering financial services tailored for high-net-worth individuals.
When Hartop joined Scottish Widows Bank back in 1995, that too was a start-up, and Entwhistle had been involved in the launch of the last new private bank in the UK, Edinburgh-based Adam & Co, which opened in 1983. Even so, building a private bank from scratch at a time when the market seemed fixated on digital rather than face-to-face banking might have seemed foolhardy.
Entwhistle and Hartop thought differently, and came up with a plan to offer potential customers ‘a dedicated private banker, in person or on the phone, to look after them. ‘There was a realisation that during the credit crunch a lot of the “relationship banking” had been removed from a number of competitors in the private banking sector, says Hartop. He believed many people were not only looking for a bank they could trust, but also one that would offer a friendly face.
If that was the case, then why hadnt anyone else tried to do what Entwhistle and Hartop had in mind for their project? Under the previous regime of the Financial Services Authority — deeply risk-averse in relation to new ventures even as it made such a mess of overseeing the established large banks — a start-up might have been just too difficult to contemplate. But in 2013, the FSA was dismantled and replaced by two separate regulatory authorities, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. The PRA, which took charge of banks, made regulatory changes which removed some of the barriers that had made it so difficult for new banks to open in the past.
The aim was to allow and even encourage more ‘green shoots competition in the banking sector. Accordingly, the new regime created the ‘mobilisation route, which gives start-up banks the certainty of becoming fully authorised when they are fully operational, but without having to have all of the elements of the new bank in place from the word go, as was previously the case.
The bank that Entwhistle and Hartop created, Hampden & Co, was one of the first to receive its licence under the new process. But even under these new rules, starting a bank remains far from easy. Hardest, says Hartop, was finding the initial investment. ‘We raised just over £60 million of capital… and I always knew that that would be the most difficult part of the project. A couple of years preparatory work was required before Hampden & Co finally opened its doors in Edinburgh in July 2015.
As well as capital, a new bank also demands plenty of time and seasoned executives. ‘You cant get up and start a new bank within six months or so, says Hartop. ‘ You dont go into it lightly. A strong and experienced team is the most important aspect. For somebody who hasnt got much experience in banking — unless of course theyre going to hire a lot of people that have got that experience — itd be very difficult to get through the [regulatory] process.
Having the right people in place is also essential for attracting customers; a lot of the bankers now working at Hampden & Co brought clients with them, and from that initial client base the banks reputation has encouraged the customer base to grow. ‘Were approaching a couple of thousand customers now and weve got about 70 staff, says Hartop. ‘So the business is going well.
Some people clearly like the personal touch Hampden delivers, and are willing to pay for it. But in the digital age, its not for everyone — and not just because they dont have the cash.
Others are drawn towards technology-based challenger bank models that have also found niches they think customers want. Like Tandem, which was crowdfunded and launched in 2015 to focus on pro-active money management — alerting the customer when they approach their overdraft limit and giving advice on how they could save money on, for example, electricity bills or subscription packages. Or Monzo, which prides itself on the ease with which a customer can open an account, claiming it can be done in under a minute.
An online bank might not need the smart premises or the platoon of presentable client-handlers that a private bank does, but getting through the red tape involves exactly the same processes. The current regulatory regime has opened opportunities for imaginative new ventures — but the simple answer is that starting a new bank requires serious capital-raising (even digital-only banks have generally had to raise in excess of £70 million to get on their feet) plus people with deep knowledge of the banking sector, plus time… lots and lots of time.
Its an expensive, laborious and meticulous process, but at least its easier than it used to be. What are we waiting for? Crowdfunding for the Spectator Bank starts now

BANK:
Start Your Own Bank
Start your own bank.  Inside this article on starting a bank we explore information about the legal aspects of operating a banking organization through a company that you own. Offshore Company.com has a service package that enables you to obtain a banking license so that you can operate your own bank.

How Long Does It Take To Start Your Own Bank?
The legal organization of document preparation, recording and filing often takes three to six months to start your own bank, which is when your financial company and holding entity are place and ready for transactions. This lead time greatly depends on your level or preparedness for the information requirements.
How Much Does it Cost?
Starting a bank in the United States costs between $500,000 to $1 million. You will need a group of experienced bankers that pass an FBI background check and finally you will need to show that you have $10 to $30 million in capital to get your bank underway.
Starting a bank offshore costs between $150,000 to $250,000 and requires $1 million in capital, depending on the jurisdiction. The capital acts as a safety cushion to help insure the safety of depositors.
Start Your Own Bank
Start your own bank.  Inside this article on starting a bank we explore information about the legal aspects of operating a banking organization through a company that you own. Offshore Company.com has a service package that enables you to obtain a banking license so that you can operate your own bank.

How Long Does It Take To Start Your Own Bank?
The legal organization of document preparation, recording and filing often takes three to six months to start your own bank, which is when your financial company and holding entity are place and ready for transactions. This lead time greatly depends on your level or preparedness for the information requirements.
How Much Does it Cost?
Starting a bank in the United States costs between $500,000 to $1 million. You will need a group of experienced bankers that pass an FBI background check and finally you will need to show that you have $10 to $30 million in capital to get your bank underway.
Starting a bank offshore costs between $150,000 to $250,000 and requires $1 million in capital, depending on the jurisdiction. The capital acts as a safety cushion to help insure the safety of depositors.
The start-up costs and capital can come from you or can come from one or more investors. Often those who want to start a bank will raise funds through a private or public offering.  In addition to helping you start your institution, inquire at the number above about our package to help you go public and raise capital for your venture.
Consulting with us about starting your own bank requires a minimum $500 consulting fee, which will be credited toward your costs of launching  your enterprise. Our management has been in place in the same industry since 1991 and can offer extensive experience on getting started.
Requirements to Start Your Own Bank
With respect to individuals as either directors, shareholders, partners, owner of account, trustees or beneficiaries:
•	(A) Full name, date and place of birth, nationality, permanent address, and occupation;
•	(B) Notarized copy of photo identification document (such as a passport or driving license);
•	(C) Where that individual does not have the above identification document, – Notarised copy of that individuals full birth certificate, where a notary has verified that copy; and
o	(1) A passport photograph of that individual, with the full name of that individual, the signature of
an identifier, and the date of that signature set out at the back of the photograph; and
o	(2) A letter signed by the identifier setting out the identifiers full name, date and place of birth,
and permanent address (the identifier can be a friend or work colleague of that individual and
has personally known that individual for more than 12 months)
In all cases:
•	(A) Two references for each beneficial owner, preferably one from your bank. We may in limited instances waive this requirement if the introducing agent can verify the owners bona fides in writing.
•	(B) Where we are opening a bank account, the two references must be addressed to the Bank
•	(C) Name and address of your Legal Advisor/Attorney/Solicitor
•	(D) Additional requirements, which may be extensive, as needed in each jurisdiction.
Starting Your Own Bank
In the case of a Chartered Financial Institution in the United States, starting your own bank takes careful attention to the application process.  Both the U.S. and offshore banking industry is regulated heavily. In the U,S., a license can be granted by federal and state charter. New charter applications are screened and have to pass a rigorous government scrutinizing. Banking regulators will take an application, every senior officer and the business plan through a strict review in order to detect problems early. Most ill prepared applicants are turned down quickly. It is widely known that banking can be a lucrative and safe investment. Security is built into the equation by the industry being so regulated. Thus, your investment is watched over for you by regulators. Everything is reviewed and tested from financial forecasts, backgrounds of the organizers and directors, fingerprinting, projections, bank policy statements, notarized signatures and a very detailed business plan. Several feet of paperwork is required to start your own bank. Applicants and the plan should be oriented towards the community and bring something of value, other than visions of profit. Starting your own bank should start with who is going to be served by it, you or the community?
That sounds like a lot of work a very expensive process… and it is. What about a finance company that you can form that acts just like a bank? A few weeks, a fraction of the cost and a lot less regulation. Your finance company is not regulated by central banking supervision, but a group of legislative acts on financial transactions and money law.
Governing Financial Legislation
There are several legal acts that govern a finance company that you create to open your own bank. Most banks are chartered institutions that are regulated and governed by Central Bank Regulation, however when you start your own through a finance company, you are governed by legislative Acts. Different jurisdictions require different items to start a bank. Here is a general bank startup checklist to use as a guide.
•	BILLS OF EXCHANGE ACT 1908
•	Cheques Act 1960
•	Companies Act 1993
•	Consumer Guarantees Act 1993
•	Credit Contracts and Consumer Finance Act 2003
•	Electronic Transactions Act 2002
•	Fair Trading Act 1986
•	Financial Transactions Reporting Act 1996
•	Investment Advisers (Disclosure) Act 1

BANK:
Starting a Bank Without Your Own Money – A Complete Guide
Do you want to learn what it takes to start a bank and print your own money? If YES, here is a complete guide to starting a bank successfully without using your own money and with zero experience.
Have you ever felt so unsatisfied with your bank before? If you have found yourself disgusted about how things are run in your bank, then you might fall into the category of some folks who wish they could own a bank. It is good to point out from the beginning that starting a bank is not an option for you if you do not have the patience to go through all the conditions set by the Central bank of your country.
You bet that the hurdles you would be subjected to scale arent few – this is so because the banking industry must be well regulated so that people can feel safe to keep their monies with them. Now lets drive the point home! Anybody that has the money, meets the laid down conditions and is free from financial frauds can acquire the license to start a bank. Dont forget you dont need all the monies in the world to start a bank.
What Does It Take to Start a Bank?
As a matter of fact there are different conditions for starting different categories of banks. For instance; the condition for starting a commercial bank is different from the conditions of starting a micro finance bank. So also the conditions and requirements for starting a community bank are different from the conditions and requirements of starting a Micro finance bank.
The financial services industry in the United States of America and in most parts of the world is highly regulated so as to guide against fraudulent practices from financial experts. As a matter of fact, once a certified financial expert is found guilty of finance related crimes, the fellow stand the risk of losing his or her certificates and membership of any financial related association that he or she belongs to.
Because of the sensitive nature of the banking industry, the body regulating and monitoring banking operations are always on their toe. So you must do all you can to keep your records clean and free from any trace of financial misappropriation and fraud to avoid your license from been revoked.
No doubt starting a bank has loads of requirements that you must meet before you can be granted a license to operate. So therefore, you are expected to approach the central bank of your country to obtain the procedures needed before you can qualify to open a bank and also the registration form.
The fact that these procedures varies from one country to another does not mean that they arent similar in the larger scheme of things. The idea of the conditions and requirements is to make it air-tight for fraudulent people to start a bank.
Starting a Bank Without Your Own Money – A Complete Guide
•	Industry Overview
Statistics has it that over 80 percent of adults (18 years and above) that live in developed countries own at least a bank account and a large percent of them transact business with the bank at least once in the month. In recent time, internet banking and mobile banking is on the increase. People can now comfortably carry out banking transaction from the comfort of their homes, offices or cars et al.
Despite the fact that the banking industry has been around from time immemorial, the industry keeps growing and evolving. For example; before the 20th / 21st century, there is nothing like internet banking or mobile money / banking et al. This goes to show that the banking industry is still growing. The industry is leveraging on technology to grow. Yes the industry might be said to be saturated, but one thing is certain, people will never stop opening banks as long as the law in their country permits it and as long as they have products that can appeal to their target market.
The factors and incentives that encourage investors and business men and women to venture into starting a bank are numerous. One of the key factors and incentives that encourage people to start a bank is the drive to make profits. There is no bank out there that is not driven by the motivation to make profits. Other incentives could be to own a business portfolio in the banking and finance industry and to setup a business that can outlive you; one that you can pass down to your children and grandchildren et al.
Starting a Bank – Market Feasibility Research
•	Demographics and Psychographics
The banking industry is one industry whose clients covers both infants and elderly people, teenagers and adults, students and working class, corporate organization and small scale businesses, the government (public sector) and the private sector et al. In essence, the demographic and psychographics composition of the banking sector is all encompassing; it covers everyone who owns money who also makes one transaction or the other.
List of Niche ideas Within the Banking Industry That You Can Specialize in
The banking industry is one industry that has niches that an investor who is looking towards starting a bank can specialize in; these niches gives room for a bank to clearly define their target market and build their marketing strategies around it.
Here are some niches in the banking industry that an investor or entrepreneur can specialize in;
•	Business Banking
•	Bank of Industry
•	Central Bank (Government owned)
•	Commercial Banking
•	Community Banking
•	Community Development Bank
•	Corporate Banking
•	Co – operative Banks
•	Mortgage Banking
•	Merchant Banks
•	Micro Finance Banking
•	Land Development Banks
•	Investment Banking
•	Islamic Banks
•	Private Banking
•	Retail Banking
•	Internet – Only Bank
The Level of Competition in the Banking Industry
If you are conversant with the banking industry, you will realize that the level of competition in the industry is pretty high. Every bank is out there to win as much clients as they can hence the level of competition in the banking industry.
On the average, if you have started building a successful business, it is the practice for several banks in your location to always come knocking at your door to do business with you. These banks all know the stiff competition in the banking industry which is why they would always come knocking with mouthwatering deals.
The truth is that, if a bank must survive the competition in the banking industry, they must always come out with more creative and innovative products and marketing approaches.
List of Well – Known Brands in the Banking Industry
There are several leading banks in the world and these leading bank cut across different niches in the banking industry. Here are some of the leading banks in the banking industry;
•	Barclay Bank
•	JPMorgan Chase, US
•	HSBC Holdings, UK
•	Deutsche Bank
•	Bank of America
•	Bank of China
•	TD Bank Group, Canada
•	Citigroup, US
•	National Australia Bank
•	UBS, Switzerland
•	Banco Santander, Spain
•	First Bank of Nigeria (Africas largest bank)
•	Standard Group (South Africa)
•	Zenith Bank
Economic Analysis
Starting a bank is indeed a capital intensive business which is why most often it is big – time investors / accredited investors that venture into this part of business. As a matter of fact, the money required to obtain a banking license is usually on the high side (although it varies for different types of banks) and also the benchmark for the capitalization of banks is not the kind of money that can easily be obtained.
So, if you are looking towards starting a bank, then you should be guided by the type of bank you intend starting, the numbers of branches that you intend opening, the numbers of employees that you are looking towards employing, the kind of banking structure you want to put in place and loads of other factors that must be critically analyzed. Of course no investor would want to start a bank without conducting detailed economic analysis; with detailed economic analysis, it is easier to make profit projections and growth projections et al.
Is the Banking Business Worth Starting from Scratch or is Buying a Banking Franchise Better?
Good enough, there are several opportunities for any investor who wants to own a bank to buy franchise from a successful bank; simply because there are several banks all over the world that are into franchising.
So, if you are looking towards starting a bank, then you have two options to choose from; one of the options is to buy a franchise and the other is to start from the scratch.
The choice of choosing how whether to start your bank from the scratch or to buy a franchise is dependent on loads of factors and it is not a decision that can be taken in isolation; your business plan and of course your business partners should be a major influence on your final decision.
Over and above, if your intention of starting a bank is to build a global brand and to be in full control of your bank, then your best bet is to start your bank from the scratch and build your brand the way you want it to be. But if your intention of starting a bank is to own a business portfolio in the banking industry and of course to make money, then you may consider buying a franchise.
Possible Threats and Challenges You Will Face When Starting a Bank
There is hardly any business or investment opportunity that does not come with its own fair share of threats and challenges. This is why most organization conduct risk assessment on a regular basis so as to enable them produce strategies that will help them stay afloat in the industry.
One of the major threat and challenges that you are likely going to face when you start your bank is the presence of other banks that are offering same or similar products as your bank. For sure if you dont have workable and winning strategies that will help you outsmart your competition in the location where you bank is located, then you are likely going to struggle to grow your bank and also retain some of the best hands under your employment.
Lastly, just as in any other business and investment vehicles, economic downturn, unstable financial market and unfavorable government economic policies can hamper the growth and profitability of a bank.
Starting a Bank – Legal Matters
•	Best legal entity to use for this type of business
Starting a bank is indeed a serious business so the legal entity you choose will go a long way to determine how big you want the business to grow. No doubt choosing a legal entity for a business such as a bank is some worth straightforward.
When it comes to choosing a legal entity for your bank you have the option of choosing from a general partnership, a limited partnership, an LLC, a “C” corporation, or a “S” corporation. It is important to clearly state that these different forms of legal structure for business has its own advantages and disadvantages; which is why you must weigh your options properly before making your choice on the legal structure to build your bank on.
These are some of the factors you should consider before choosing a legal entity for your bank; limitation of personal liability, ease of transferability, admission of new owners and investors expectation and tax issues. If you take your time to critically study the various legal entities to use for your bank, then you will agree that limited liability company; an LLC is most suitable. You can start your bank as limited liability company (LLC) and in future convert it to a ‘C corporation or a ‘S corporations especially when you have the plans of going public.
Upgrading to a ‘C corporation or ‘S corporation will give you the opportunity to grow your bank so as to compete with major players in the industry; you will be able to generate capital from venture capital firms, stock market, you will enjoy separate tax structure, and you can easily transfer ownership of the company; you will enjoy flexibility in ownership and in your management structures.
Catchy Business Name ideas Suitable for a Bank
When it comes to choosing a name for a bank, there is no hard and fast rule; usually most banks you find around always have the word bank as part of their name so as to indicate the kind of business you run, some also have words that clearly start the niche / type of banking business they run. For example an investment bank will somehow carry the word investment so also a mortgage bank and bank if industry et al.
These are some of the catchy names you can choose from if you intend starting your bank;
•	Shannon and Shavonne Investment Bank (S & S Investment Bank)
•	Assurance Trust Bank PLC
•	Lakewood Community Bank
•	Harry Porter Development Bank
•	Apex Bank PLC
•	Metro Bank Group
•	Savannah Investment Bank
•	Portland Mortgage Bank
•	Dakota Micro Finance Bank
•	Aries Merchant Bank
•	Malachi Commercial Bank
Getting the Best Insurance Policy for your Bank
In the United States and of course in most countries of the world, you cant operate a business without having some of the basic insurance policies that is required by the industry you want to operate from. Besides, the nature of the banking industry requires that you have the proper insurance cover in place or else you will be forced out of business if investment goes wrong. So it is important to create a budget for insurance and perhaps consult an insurance broker to guide you in choosing the best insurance policies for your bank.
Here are some of the basic insurance covers that you should consider purchasing if you want to start your own bank in the United States of America;
•	General insurance
•	Health insurance
•	Risk Insurance
•	Credit insurance
•	Deposit insurance
•	Financial reinsurance
•	Lenders mortgage insurance
•	Payment protection insurance
•	Liability insurance
•	Workers compensation
•	Overhead expense disability insurance
•	Business owners policy group insurance
Getting Intellectual Property Protection for your Bank
No doubt starting a bank is indeed a serious business hence you must do all you can to dot the ‘Is and cross the ‘ts and one of the things you need to do is to file in for intellectual property protection. This is necessary because you must ensure that you bank logo and every other official document of your bank is well protected to guide against people taking advantage of the fact that they are not protected.
Most likely, you may want to develop your own customized software; if you happen to develop your own customized software application, then by all means you would need to apply for intellectual property protection.
Lastly, there will be need for you to also develop unique banking products for your customers. The fact that there are competitions in the banking industry requires that you protect your brain child or else other will leverage on it.
Is Professional Certification Required to Start a Bank?
Ordinarily as investor, you may not need a professional certification before starting your bank as longs as you meet the requirement as stipulated by the regulated body in your country. Be that as it may, your core management team is expected to belong to some key bodies in the banking and finance industry in your country.
At least some of your core management team should be chattered in accounting and finance, investment, risk and other financial and banking related areas.
List of Legal Documents You Need to Start a Bank
In The United States of America and of course all over the world, the banking industry is amongst the industries that are highly regulated. If you are considering starting a bank, then you are expected to meet the legal documents requirements as stipulated in the constitution of your country.
These are some of the basic legal document that you are expected to have in place if you want to start a bank in the United States of America;
•	Certificate of Incorporation
•	Business / banking License
•	Business Plan
•	Non – disclosure Agreement
•	Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
•	Online Terms of Use
•	Online Privacy Policy
•	Apostille
•	Employment Agreement (offer letters)
•	Operating Agreement
•	Company Bylaws
•	Operating Agreement for LLCs
•	Insurance Policy
Writing a Business Plan for your Bank
If you are looking towards starting a bank, then one of the first steps that you are expected to take is to consult experts to help you draft a good and workable business plan. The truth is that, in order to successfully run a bank, you would need to have a good business plan in place.
A Business plan is the blue print that is needed to successfully run a business; with a workable business plan in place, you will reduce the trial and error approach of doing business. You will be able to manage your business with purpose and perhaps precisions; you will know what to do per time and how to handle challenges and growth.
So if you want to start your own bank, you are required to write a detailed business plan that can pass reality test when subjected to it; you should work with the facts, figures and other indices in the industry as it applies to the locations you intend opening your bank.
The whole idea of writing a business plan is not just for the sake of having a business document in place; but a detail guide on how to effectively run your business from the scratch. Your business plan should outline and cover strategies on how you intend to manage and grow your bank.
The rule of thumb in writing a business plan is to try as much as possible to be realistic and never to over project when putting figures on income and profits et al. As a matter of fact, it is safer to underestimate when writing a business plan so that you wont be so disappointed when reality sets in.
These are the key areas that should be covered in your business plan;
•	Executive summary and Companys descriptions: you are expected to write about the concept of your business, descriptions of your company, your companys vision statement, mission statement and where your company will be located and also if you intend selling out franchise or opening outlets in different cities in the United States of America and in other parts of the world.
•	Other key components that should not be missing in your banking business plan are product offering, SWOT analysis, competitive analysis, marketing and sales analysis / strategies, target market, market goals, pricing, costing and financial projection, publicity and advertising strategy, expansion and growth strategies, budget and start – up capital generation et al.
How Much Does It Cost to Starting a Bank?
The cost of starting a bank is in the two fold; the cost of setting up the office structure (including branches) and of course your capital base. For example, if you have a capital base (Tier 1 Capital) of 10M you can only accept a deposit up to $100M. So the nature and size of bank you are looking towards starting will determine the amount you are expected to raise.
As regard the cost of setting up the office structure, your concern should be to secure a good office facility in a busy business district; it can be expensive though, but that is one of the factors that will help you position your bank to attract the kind of customers you would want to do business with.
When it comes to starting a small scale bank perhaps a micro finance / community bank, the following expenditure should guide you;
•	The Total Fee for incorporating the Business – $750.
•	The budget for insurance policies, permits and license – $10,000
•	The Amount needed to acquire a suitable Office facility in a business district with 6 months rent up – front (Re – Construction of the facility inclusive) – $50,000.
•	The Cost for equipping the office (computers, printers, fax machines, furniture, telephones, filing cabins, safety gadgets and electronics et al) – $5,000
•	The Cost of Launching your official Website – $600
•	Budget for paying at least 10 employees for 3 months and utility bills – $200,000
•	Additional Expenditure (Business cards, Signage, Adverts and Promotions et al) – $2,500
•	Capital Base – 10 Million Dollars
•	Miscellaneous – $10,000
Going by the report from the research and feasibility studies, you will need about 1.5 Million U.S. Dollars to set up a small scale (community or microfinance) bank in the United States of America. You will need over 50 Million U.S. dollars to successfully set – up a medium scale bank.
If you are considering starting a large scale bank (investment bank, mortgage bank and merchant bank et al) with several branches in key cities in the United States, then you should look towards budgeting well over 100 million United States dollars.
Financing your Bank
Starting a bank is usually not a business that an individual can go all the way alone, there is always need for you to invite business partners / investors that will pull cash together simply because the amount required to start a bank is to a joke.
Here are some of the options you can explore when sourcing for start – up capital for your bank;
•	Raising money from personal savings and sale of personal stocks and properties
•	Raising money from investors and business partners
•	Sell shares to interested investors
•	Applying for loan from your bank / banks
•	Pitching your business idea and applying for business grants and seed funding from donor organizations and angel investors
•	Source for soft loans from your family members and your friends.
Choosing a Suitable Location for your Bank
Location is a key factor that contributes to the success of any business. If you make the mistake of choosing a wrong location for your business, you are likely going to struggle to grow the business and if care is not taken, you might end up closing shop due to lack of patronage.
So if you are looking for a location to start, you bank, then you should be willing to pay experts to help you conduct thorough feasibility studies and market survey; they should go out there to carry out research.
No doubt one of the suitable locations for a bank is place with healthy and thriving business activities; a place where there is steady cash flow. Places like market, commercial centers and business districts et al are suitable to locate a bank.
These are some of the factors that you should consider before choosing a location for your bank;
•	The demography of the location
•	The nature of business activities in the location
•	The purchasing power of the residence of the location
•	Accessibility of the location
•	The numbers of banks in the location
•	The local laws and regulations in the community / state
•	Traffic, parking and security et al
Starting a Bank – Technical & Manpower Details
If you are considering starting a bank, then you should look towards hiring ICT experts to help you develop your own software application, secured internet platform and online payment system (online banking et al), good mobile banking system and secured ATM cards, ATM machines and POS machines et al. These are some of the technical stuffs that you must be ready to sort out before successfully launching your bank. You should also consider installing security devices (security doors and CCTV cameras et al) all around your banking facility.
When it comes to choosing between renting and leasing an office space, the size of the organization you want to build, and your entire budget for the business should influence your choice. If you looking towards running a standard bank, then you should consider the option of leasing or outright purchasing of a facility for your bank; when you lease or buy over a property, you will be able to work with long – term planning.
If you are looking towards starting your bank you should be ready to hire only the best hands that you can find in the industry to occupy key management positions. You can hire trainees to occupy some of the lower positions as long as you will make room for adequate training for them.
On the average, you are expected to have some key roles occupied by experienced professionals. Key roles such as Managing Director, Financial Controller, Branch / Bank Manage, Banking Officers, Marketing Executives, ICT Manager, and Customer Relation Manager et al
The Production Process Involved in the Banking Industry
As regard the production process involved in the banking industry, there are variations and it is dependent on the type of bank that you choose to run.
For example, if you choose to run a commercial bank, then whenever you open your bank for business, you are expected to have customers come in to deposit cash, to make withdrawer or to transfer cash et al. This is the regular activities that take place in a commercial banking hall.
Starting a Bank – The Marketing Plan
•	Marketing Ideas and Strategies for your Bank
What keeps the banking industry growing is the innovation and products they have to offer. Starting and running a bank requires aggressive marketing. Little wonder those in the marketing unit in the banking industry are the type of employees that are easily promoted when they meet and surpass their targets. So to stay afloat in the banking industry, you must be ready to spend good cash in advertising and promoting your bank. Your marketing and advertising departments must come out with new innovations and products that can catch the attention of your potential clients.
So when you are drafting your marketing ideas and strategies for your bank, make sure that you create a compelling personal and companys profile which must include the profile of your board of directors and management team. The truth is that if you have honest, trustworthy and successful professional in your board, customers can easily trust you with their hard earned money.
Here are some of the platforms you can utilize to market your banking business;
•	Introduce your business by sending introductory letters alongside your brochure to investors and corporate organizations
•	Advertise your business in relevant business magazines and make yourself available for banking related talk shows and interactive sessions on TV and Radios)
•	List your business on local directories / yellow pages (both online and offline)
•	Attend expos, seminars, and business fairs et al
•	Leverage on the internet to promote your business
•	Join local chambers of commerce around you with the main aim of networking and marketing your bank.
•	Engage the services of marketing executives and business developers to carry out direct marketing
Possible Competitive Strategies for Winning your Competitors in the Banking Industry
No doubt the competition in the banking industry is on the high side in the United States of America and perhaps in most countries with loads of banks. So if you intend building a strong and healthy bank, then you must come up with creative strategies to outsmart your competitors in the industry.
First and foremost, you must ensure that your customer services delivery is top notch; the truth is that customers will always troop to any place where they are certain that they will get the best of customer services. Aside from top notch customer services, you are also expected to ensure that your systems and processes are seamless and efficient especially if you are involved in online banking and mobile banking.
Possible Ways to Increase Customers retention for a Bank
If you want to remain competitive and continue to increase your customer retention, then you must be creative and always look for ways to outsmart your competitors in the industry. As a matter of fact, if you can successfully close your back doors and ensure that you retain a minimum of 60 percent of your customers, then your business can be said to be healthy and thriving.
Some of the possible ways you can increase your customer retention is that, you must work towards giving out incentives to your clients via promos and freebies et al.
Your customer services must be top notches and Your CRM software applications must be effectively maximized so that you will be in touch with all your customers.
Strategies to Boost your Bank Brand Awareness and Create a Corporate identity
The banking business just like any other business requires media hype to get people to buy into the brand.
Your brand has to do with the way people perceive you to be which is why you should be deliberate when it comes to communicating and promoting your brand. In promoting your brand and corporate identity, you should leverage on both print and electronic media. As a matter of fact, it is cost effective to use social media platforms to promote your brands, besides it is pretty much effective.
Here are the platforms you can leverage on to create brand awareness of your bank and to promote your corporate identity in the market place;
•	Place adverts on national TV stations, Radio Stations and Newspapers / Magazines
•	Run your own special TV program
•	Sponsor relevant community programs
•	Leverage on the internet and social media platforms like; Instagram, Facebook , Badoo, YouTube, Twitter et al
•	Install your Bill Boards on strategic locations
•	Engage in road show from time to time
•	Distribute your fliers and handbills to targeted areas from time to time
•	Send out introductory letters to multinationals, embassies, and Diaspora organizations and networks in and around your location
•	Encourage the use of word of mouth especially from loyal customers
•	Ensure that all your vehicles are branded with your companys logo
•	Ensure that all your employees wear your branded shirts once in a week during work hours
Tips for Running your Bank Successfully
The truth is that, irrespective of the kind of business you run, your ability to get all the members of your team on same page at all times is one of the keys you need to successfully run the organization.
As the chief executive officer or president of a bank, it is you responsibility to give direction to the business. Part of what you need to do is to ensure that you create time for office meetings; a time where challenges, feedbacks, projections and relevant issues are discussed. The meetings could be daily, once in a week, twice a week or once in a month. The bottom line is that there should be consistent meetings in your organization.
Carrying out appraisals on a regular basis and training your employees will help you run your organization effectively. Encourage your employees to pursue certifications in their various area of specializations; it will help your organizations profile and of course it will help the individuals. You can choose to fully or partially sponsor some of the certifications.
Lastly, you should keep your doors open for suggestions from members of your team and your clients. It is very important to reward excellent performance in your organization; it will go a long way to encourage healthy competition in your organization.


BANK:
How do I improve customer service in the banking industry?
Ad by ActiveCampaign

How has ActiveCampaign redefined marketing automation?

Tens of thousands of SMB's are growing by going beyond basic marketing automation.

Learn more at activecampaign.com
13 Answers

Danielle A. Harrison, Product Manager at WalkMe
Answered Feb 18 · Author has 1.1k answers and 210k answer views
The digital era is impacting every industry out there, and the banking industry is no different. In a world where customers receive real time help and support in other areas of their lives, they also expect to receive similar service when banking. Improving the digital aspect of customer service in the banking industry is the way to go. Hereâ€™s why:
Will â€˜Challenger Banksâ€™ Replace Traditional Banks?
Customers today desire 3 things: immediacy, high-quality, and personalization. Amazon is so disruptive to the retail industry because its entire strategy revolves around fulfilling these demands. The company, now worth $544 billion and growing, continuously seeks innovative ways to improve the customer experience. On the other hand, big box retail stores, which were notoriously slow digital adopters, are rapidly dwindling.
Amid the rise of fintech, traditional banks are on the brink of a similar scenario. Banks today are facing a new breed of competitors: challenger banks. Preserving market share will not only require reimagining the role of technology in core business operations, but also a new outlook on the customer experience.
Fintech refers to the use of new technology to provide financial services. Today, fintech organizations number in the thousands, providing everything from mobile payments to peer-to-peer lending to digital asset management. Banks, which traditionally covered all of customersâ€™ financial needs, must now compete with emerging digital contenders, who are better equipped to provide a personalized user experience. Under the fintech umbrella, challenger banks are keen to grow their market.

Challenger banks are almost exclusively digital, free from the constraints of legacy systems and high overhead costs. Unlike conventional banks, challengers are typically startups. They donâ€™t need to undergo lengthy and expensive digital transformations â€” they grow from the ground up with the most innovative technology.
Traditional banks cannot afford to merely be reactive in an increasingly competitive landscape. According to PwCâ€™s 2017 Global FinTech Survey, financial industry respondents estimated at least a quarter of their business is at risk of being lost to standalone fintech companies in the next five years. To remain relevant among an increasingly selective and tech-savvy population, traditional financial services organizations must fuse innovative technology with customer service.
Have traditional banking services reached a tipping point?

Bank:
	15 tips for outstanding customer service
While strict rules restrain creativity and spontaneity, that doesn't mean proven principles to fall on deaf ears. There are a number of customer service tips that have been used time and time again to create great experiences. You need to know about them.
After years of working at Help Scout and talking to industry-leading support managers, Ive noticed 15 recurring tips that all of the best support departments have in common.
Are you looking to start or grow a career in customer support? Read our free career guide ?
1. Your customer service team needs the right tools
There is just no substitute for knowing your customers. The right support tools make it easy. Youd be surprised at the number of meaningful conversations you can have when you no longer have to stumble around in the dark.
Its frustrating to be on the receiving end of support when the team isnt outfitted correctly. I watched such a scenario unfold a while back with brand new software I was using. Like many growing companies, they falsely believed that Gmail was “okay for now.”
Unfortunately for me, the conversation played in the same vein as the following:
 
Why pester when you can delight?
You risk ruining your first impression when you treat your customers like Comcast treats people calling in: “Can we have your personal information, account information, blood sample, and deepest fear?”
With Help Scout, you can avoid this situation entirely through using features like built-in customer profiles.
 
There is a reason why tools like Gmail fail for customer service.
2. Practice clear communication with customers
Excellence in anything increases your potential in everything. There are few positions for which this applies more than support—clarity in communication is paramount because it affects everything you do.
Styling affects communication. Tone affects communication. Common mistakes to be made are using passive-aggressive language (“Actually…”) or confusing customers with slang, colloquialisms, or technical jargon.
Heres another: which one of the following statements do you think is more appropriate?
•	You are being transferred. Your call is very important to us.
•	Hey Jane, Im going to introduce you to our customer success specialist who will be better able to answer your question!
Easy. One is a trite platitude that people are sick of hearing. The other explains to customers why the transfer is to their benefit. Wording makes all the difference.
 
Download Your Free Guide
From your initial search to final purchase and setup, this (unbiased) resource will help make choosing any help desk easier.
3. Speak as your customers do
Chase Clemons of Basecamp makes this point with gusto in A Brief Guide to Sending Better Support Emails, but the quick takeaway is that your customers want conversations, not “correspondence.” Youre not talking with the Queen of England.
Consider the following disappointing example (names have been removed from this real email):
 
The customer is literally treated like a number. The overly formal tone creates the feeling that a letter is being written to a 16th century nobleman—is this an “inquiry” or a conversation with a real person?
Be friendly, personable, and casual. A follow-up email like this works better:
 
4. Always use positive language
Positive language is a great way to avoid accidental conflicts sprung from miscommunication. While the change is subtle, the effects are drastic.
Say one of your products is backordered for a month and you need to relay this information to a customer immediately. Consider the following responses:
•	Negative language: "I can't get you that product until next month. It is back-ordered and unavailable at this time."
•	Positive language: "That product will be available next month. I can place the order for you right now and make sure that it is sent to you as soon as it reaches our warehouse!"
Redirecting the conversation from negative to positive places focus on the proposed solution. When the outcome takes center stage, it reduces the odds that customers will be upset.
5. Give credence to customer complaints
Harsh words are not always indicative of insight, and complaining customers are not always a sign that something is wrong. Be that as it may, sometimes great feedback is buried within the vitriol—give credence to every message.
To stay consistent in tone and process, use the CARP method:
•	Control the situation.
•	Acknowledge the dilemma.
•	Refocus the conversation.
•	Problem-solve so the customer leaves happy.
Receiving the same complaint repeatedly is the beginning of a narrative. This shouldnt dictate what to do next, but it will begin to reveal what requires your attention.
5. Avoid helping customers at breakneck speeds
"What builds a stronger tie to Arby's may not be whether a customer receives a sandwich in less than three minutes,” says Gallup researcher William J. McEwen. “Speed won't compensate for a cold, tasteless sandwich or for rude and incompetent service."
Make sure your service isn't leaving a bad taste in customers' mouths, either.
Take time to ensure first-contact resolution becomes a priority. There is nothing customers appreciate more than getting helpful advice the first time around.
6. Know how to close a conversation
The ability to close improves every single interaction. This is not closing a sale, its closing the conversation with a customer.
Leaving an issue unresolved creates unnecessary problems. Data suggests as little as ~4% of dissatisfied customers will ever speak up. Not everyone will communicate what is bothering them—often because you havent communicated that you care.
Your willingness to correctly close a conversation shows the customer three important things:
•	You care about getting it right.
•	You're willing to keep going until you get it right.
•	The customer is the one who determines what “right” is.
“Is there anything else I can do for you today? Im happy to help!” Always look for small opportunities like this.
Make sure you and your team always get to a place where, “Yes, Im all set!” rings loud and clear.
7. Keep standards high and response times low
Inbox zero neednt be a zero-sum game. Delighting users is impossible when the teams morale is being crushed under the weight of a cluttered inbox.
Keep it simple, sunshine. Since basic, common questions are where your keystrokes go to waste, start by addressing them with scalable templates.
Saved replies are valuable to a support department because the whole team builds on them. Set guidelines for identifying common questions and when a saved reply can and should be created.
The more you add, the more useful your saved reply collection becomes.
 
8. Help customers help themselves
Great customer service should always be available, even when you arent.
When done right, self-service is personal at scale. View your help content as a top-tier reply from your support team made public for all to see and benefit from. Screenshots, videos, styling and more ensure your frequently asked questions will get frequently loved answers.
While impressive efforts like VHXs documentation will take you some time, the journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step, and the journey to a useful knowledge base starts with your first article.
Help Scout Docs makes it easy. A few clicks auto-magically creates a logically organized help portal made to look as beautiful and usable as your own product.
 
9. Make use of strategic automation
“Filtering” can sound worrisome in the realm of customer service, but it more accurately serves as direction. Customers receive the best support possible when they are sent to the right place the first time around.
With Workflows, you can trigger automatic filtering through subject line keywords. This offers a number of advantages:
•	Make iterative improvements. Want to keep response times down to ~6 hours? Set up a Workflow to remind the appropriate user(s) so that messages dont sit and collect dust.
•	Highlight opportunities to ‘Wow! By setting up a folder and a Workflow for a keyword like “Refund” in the subject line, youll add a streamlined way to salvage potentially lost customers. Special conversations (“Upgrading,” “Canceling my account”) let you provide superb support at key crossroads.
•	Better manage VIP customers. Its helpful to filter enterprise or long-term customers to their own folders to ensure timely responses. They may have different needs; set them up for success by getting them out of the main inbox.  
Meaningful automation helps create more meaningful conversations. Best to use it wisely.
10. Be data-informed, not data-delusional
Why rely on “It feels like we spend a lot of time on this issue…” when reporting can easily eliminate the guesswork?
This is actually an important, often-overlooked issue in support. Too much focus is given to the frequency of issues over the average handle time for each.
Rather, that is your world before support metrics. Your world after is clicking the “Time Tracking” tag and gaining immediate access to data that tells you how many emails you receive about the feature, as well as how long it takes your team to handle the conversations.
 
Although great data cannot guarantee good decision-making, its better than flying blind. The right data will help you keep your team in the loop. “Heres how we did this week” becomes easy and valuable. Satisfaction Ratings top it off by allowing you to see where support interactions went really well (or very wrong). Both are learning opportunities.
Better learning results in meaningful improvements. Being able to see through the haze of a thousand of emails is illuminating, and an important step in getting there is not relying solely on your gut.
11. Give thanks in the real world
Weve entered a world where retention matters in business more than ever, but web businesses seem happy to avoid interacting with customers.
They arent pageviews—theyre people. How would you feel if a deli owner asked you to join their message board just to talk about how the cold cuts tasted?
Time to bring the personal touch back to the real world.
Consider this handwritten note that Jawbone sent to a new UP customer:
 
A single picture that was retweeted 150+ times—thats an immense amount of goodwill “paid for” with a simple thank you.
What other 5-minute task creates as much ROI as that? You wont have time to hand-write every customer, but if there is one activity that should never get lost in the shuffle of building a business, its thanking your customers.
A surprise gift from @helpscout - delicious cookies by http://t.co/Z2HCFNryC8. Our bellies are happy. Thanks, Becca!! pic.twitter.com/6uSGzAdNJS
— AnneMarie (@annemarieinsf) December 5, 2014
 
Free PDF: 25 Ways to Thank Your Customers
Ready to turn customers into advocates? Download this handy guide to building a loyal customer base.
12. Spot and deliver 'frual wows'
Memorable experiences spring from the unexpected. When your team feels stifled by red tape, remember these words from Paul Graham: “An obstacle upstream propagates downstream.” If you make ideas hard to implement, your team will stop offering them.
Frugal wows are the answer, says Bain consultant Fred Reich. Take the opportunity to guide the support team away from throwing money at the problem, and instead pour thought and effort into it.
According to Rob Markey, disappointment strikes when companies try to “empower” their team the wrong way:
We know of one retail bank that gave their call center representatives the edict to delight customers and permission to waive up to $150 in fees for any customer without seeking any additional authorization.
The result? Customer satisfaction rose a little, but fee revenue declined.
A lot.
When a customer is looking for nothing other than free stuff, they arent a good fit for your business in the first place.
13. Unify your customer service team
Pro tip: managing customer service without a playbook can feel as chaotic as a pee-wee football game.
Consider the time lost manually answering frequently asked questions. The same principle applies to explanations to your staff on the back-end. Encourage autonomy and eliminate confusion by creating unity through clarity.
How?
Use a support lexicon. “Is it okay to say this?” Support should always feel welcome to ask, but you can eliminate excessive questioning through a support lexicon, a handbook on how to talk to customers. Focus on the dos and donts of tone and language, and outline the style of customer service you admire.
Address common objections. A while back I had a prospective customer make a “scale objection” to Help Scout. Could we handle 50 users? I knew some of our customers had over 400 unique users and replied as such, but I felt my answer would have been better with additional information. The next week, our support team made a customer objections doc, addressing things like competitor objections (“How are you different from ____?”) and pricing objections.
Outline your processes. When is it appropriate to write a piece of help content? Is it okay to set up a new Workflow without asking management? How should we document bugs and errors? Every support department will have these questions, and to best address them, give guidelines that allow for autonomy but that dont leave people lost without a map.
14. Take a whole-company approach
Ill let our friend Mathias Meyer handle this one, from a previously published essay on our blog:
“When everyone in the company is involved in customer service, it changes the dynamic significantly. Knowledge of issues, bugs, and features is much more widespread throughout the team.
Why is that beneficial?
Because everyone should be feeling the customers pain. With developers in particular, there's a common question that arises when the entire company is encouraged to be involved in customer service.
Shouldn't developers be writing code, shipping new features, and fixing bugs? After all, they're an expensive resource, and their time is much better spent improving the product rather than talking to customers, right?
But how will developers know best what kinds of problems their code solves and creates? The same is true for missing features. While product roadmaps handed down by management are useful tools, asking customers directly what kinds of problems they're having is incredibly powerful in determining new features.”
So simple that it shouldnt be forgotten, yet it often is: talk to your customers. Get your whole team involved in customer service.
15. Invest in great people
The quality of your customer service will never exceed the quality of the people providing it.
If you plan on out-supporting the competition, plan on investing heavily in a team that can deliver.
Leadership has one main objective from which they should never stray: Hire who you trust and trust who you hire.
Customer service can either be nothing more than a means to an end, or it can be a dynamic aspect of your entire business. Engaging customers and helping them get the most out of your product will give them a reason to tell others why they love your company. Use these tips, and I guarantee youll be on your way to world-class customer service.

Bank:
Bank Profitability
Like all businesses, banks profit by earning more money than what they pay in expenses. The major portion of a bank's profit comes from the fees that it charges for its services and the interest that it earns on its assets. Its major expense is the interest paid on its liabilities.
The major assets of a bank are its loans to individuals, businesses, and other organizations and the securities that it holds, while its major liabilities are its deposits and the money that it borrows, either from other banks or by selling commercial paper in the money market.
Banks increase profits by using leverage — sometimes too much leverage, which helped precipitate the credit crisis that occurred in 2007 to 2009. Profits can be measured as a return on assets and as a return on equity. Because of leverage, banks earn a much larger return on equity than they do on assets. For instance, in the 1st quarter of 2016, all financial institutions insured by the FDIC, which includes most banks, earned an average return on assets equal to 0.97%, whereas the return on equity was 8.62%.

Bank:
What are the differences between commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions?
      
List the differences between commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions.
Answers
________________________________________

(i) Commercial banks offer safety locker facilities while non-bank financial institutions do not offer safety locker facilities.

(ii) Commercial banks are members of clearing house/ clear cheques through clearing house while non-bank financial institutions are not members of clearing house/ do not participate in clearing cheques.

(iii) Commercial banks provide foreign exchange services while non-bank financial institutions do not exchange foreign currency.

(iv) Commercial banks lend money to all sectors while non-bank financial institutions lend money for specific sectors.

(v) Commercial banks are regulated by the central bank/ Banking Act while non-bank financial institutions are not regulated by Banking Act but other Acts.

(vi) Commercial banks provide short-term loans while non-bank financial institutions provide long term loans.

(vii) Commercial banks provide current account facilities/ issue cheque books while non-bank financial institutions do not provide current account facilities/ Do not issue cheques books.
________________________________________
maurice.mutuku answered the question on July 26, 2017 at 08:27


Bank: Finance Companies
Commercial finance companies have in recent years become a favorite option for entrepreneurs seeking small business loans. Commercial financing institutions generally charge higher interest rates than banks and credit unions, but they are also more likely to approve a loan request. Most loans obtained through finance companies are secured and the assets used as collateral can be seized if the entrepreneur defaults on the loan.
Consumer finance companies make small loans against personal assets and provide an option for individuals with poor credit ratings. Commercial finance companies provide small businesses with loans for inventory and equipment purchases and are a good resource of capital for manufacturing enterprises. Insurance companies often make commercial loans as a way of reinvesting their income. They usually provide payment terms and interest rates comparable to a commercial bank, but require a business to have more assets available as collateral.
"In general, finance companies want to see strong assets to back up a loan and will monitor those assets much more carefully," one expert told Entrepreneur. "For that reason, they can loan more against the assets. So chances are a smaller business might get a larger loan from a finance company" than from a bank. Paola Banchero of Kansas City Business Journal noted that commercial finance companies have also grown because they are more flexible in arranging loan repayment schedules than are banks. Whereas banks typically require a seven-year repayment schedule on term loans and 15-year schedules for loans on commercial property, finance companies may extend payment schedules up to 10 years for term loans and up to 25 years for loans on commercial real estate.
Finance companies have experienced sustained growth throughout the 1990s. By the end of the decade, finance companies had become America's second largest source of business credit, behind banking institutions. Larger commercial finance companies often offer small business owners a variety of lending options from which to choose. These include factoring, working capital loans, equipment financing and leasing, working capital loans, specialized equity investments, collateral-based financing, and cash-flow financing. Some also offer additional services in connection with those loans, such as assistance with collections.
Commercial finance companies come in all shapes and sizes. The size of the firm usually has some bearing on the exact services it offers. The nation's largest finance firms (The Money Store, AT&T Small Business Lending Corp.) have established networks of offices across the country, and they sometimes offer lending services that even banks do not. For example, The Money Store—which made more than 1,700 loans worth $635 million in fiscal year 1996—offers loans to entrepreneurs looking to take ownership of a franchise, an option that is not available at all banks. But as Entrepreneur's Cynthia Griffin noted, "in addition to the mega players, the commercial finance industry is populated by hundreds of smaller firms." These firms generally make asset-based loans, providing services to small business owners who are unable to secure loans from their banks.

Bank:
Difference Between Corporate and Commercial Banking
by Gerald Hanks

RELATED ARTICLES
•	How to Increase Revenue for a Retail Bank
•	Difference Between a Bank Balance Sheet and a Company Balance Sheet
•	Surety Bond Vs. Letter of Credit
•	Funding Help for Laundromats
•	Organizational Structure of Banks
•	Bond Companies Who Bond High Risk Contractors
From large, multinational financial institutions to small, local depositories, banks provide a wide range of services to numerous types of customers. Most major banks offer both commercial and corporate banking experts for their customers. Although both modes of business banking have some similarities, banks offer specific services for their corporate clients that differ from those provided to their individual and small-business customers.
Purpose of Corporate Banking
The primary purposes of corporate banking include raising capital and managing credit for their corporate clients. A major component of corporate banking involves the development of investment instruments such as stocks and bonds. Other services can include cash management, credit financing, loan underwriting and compliance with government financial reporting regulations. The separation of corporate banking from consumer or commercial banking services enables the financial experts in these fields to focus on meeting the needs of corporate clients.
Examples of Corporate Banking
Corporate banking offers funding to corporations and institutional customers through debt issues, structured financial products or other investment instruments. These instruments can include bridge loans and letters of credit. For example, a C corporation might use a bridge loan for a quick infusion of capital until another source of financing is finalized. A letter of credit assures the recipient that, if the corporation fails to repay a loan, the bank issuing the letter of credit will repay the loan.
Purpose of Commercial Banking
The term "commercial banking" covers services banks offer to individuals and small businesses. Commercial banks manage checking and savings accounts for individuals and small businesses, as well as provide credit for borrowers. Small businesses obtain needed credit from commercial banks for business loans. Commercial banks also invest in credit instruments such as government or municipal bonds. These bonds often deliver steady return rates that keep pace with inflation.
Examples of Commercial Banking
One of the primary examples of commercial banking is how commercial banks serve as primary lenders on nearly every type of consumer credit. Commercial banks make loans to individuals on such items as auto loans, credit cards and home mortgages. Commercial banks also provide lines of credit to small businesses for equipment loans, construction loans and mortgages on commercial property. These banks also help depositors earn more on their money through instruments such as certificates of deposit, money market accounts and interest-bearing checking and savings accounts.

BANK:
Business Strategies: Bank Commercial Lending vs. Finance Company Lending
•	Author & abstract
•	Download
•	Related works & more
•	Corrections
Author
Listed:
•	Donald G. Simonson
(The Jerome Levy Economics Institute)
Registered:
Abstract
Donald Simonson reviews the shift of a large share of the credit market to commercial financial companies during the last decade and asks whether the banks' loss of market share resulted in a loss of efficiency. In every year from 1983 to 1992 business credit at commercial banks. Reasons for this include the following: (1) Reduction in bank loans to businesses is a continuation of losses of business relationships. (2) Banks have lost the their historical funding cost advantage compared to nondepository intermediaries. (3) With the loss of banks' traditional "blue chip" corporate loan market, profitability concerns and the opportunity to exploit FDIC protection of their uninsured deposits attracted banks promise larger payoffs on high-risk loans to less-developed countries, energy development and production, real estate, and highly leveraged takeovers. This resulted in less lending to core customers in the small and middle markets. (4) Overzealous regulators and tough banks examinations may have been responsible for the cyclical decline in the availability of bank credit. The surge of financial company lending during the recent period of stagnant bank lending presents an opportunity to test the goodness of bank lending by comparing the performance of banks with unregulated competitors. Simonson concludes that finance companies were no riskier, and possibly less so, than commercial banks. And yet,they appear to have produced greater accounting returns, as well as significantly greater risk adjusted market returns fir their shareholders despite substantially greater capital markets for business, financial companies make attractive acquisition targets.


BANK:
The Difference Between Accounting and Finance
Amelia Josephson MAY 21, 2018
SHARE
 
 
 
 
 

If youre going back to school, choosing your undergraduate major or just curious about the finance and accounting worlds, you may be wondering what the difference is between accounting and finance. The two fields arent a world apart, but there are important differences that are worth knowing. Let us break it down for you.
Check out our investment calculator. 
Accounting vs. Finance: The Basics
The difference between finance and accounting is that accounting focuses on the day-to-day flow of money in and out of a company or institution, whereas finance is a broader term for the management of assets and liabilities and the planning of future growth.
If you want to exercise high-level control over a companys strategy, finance could be for you. If you want to take a detailed look at a companys books youre probably more interested in accounting. Its often said that accounting looks back to a companys past financial transactions, whereas finance looks forward to plan future acquisition of assets.
Accounting is more about accurate reporting of what has already happened and compliance with laws and standards. Finance is about looking forward and growing a pot of money or mitigating losses. If you like thinking in terms of a longer time horizon you may be happier in finance than in accounting.
If you want to study accounting you can expect to take classes in accounting practices and accounting ethics, business law, tax law and accounting theory. If you study finance youll likely spend some time on macroeconomics and international finance in your classes, as well as on financial engineering and corporate finance.
Making the Choice: Finance vs. Accounting

The difference between finance and accounting may just be a matter of idle curiosity for some of us, but if youre choosing a college major or a career, its an important distinction. Particularly if youre planning to take on student loans, you probably want to be sure that youre choosing the right path.
Choose accounting and if you work for a big company youll likely report to the companys Chief Financial Officer. You could have a job title like Controller, Tax Manager, Fund Accountant, Valuation Analyst or Financial Reporting Accountant. Alternatively, you could become a Tax Accountant, a Bookkeeper, Treasurer or Auditor, for yourself, a business, a non-profit or the government.
As an accounting professional youll be tracking and reporting flows of money and ensuring compliance with best practices. Youll rely on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and youll likely come to be familiar with the tax code, too. Section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code will be your friend. Thats the section of the tax code that covers “General rules for methods of accounting.”
If you choose finance you have a different range of options. You could become a financial analyst, investment banker, financial examiner, personal financial advisor or money manager. You could work in consulting or corporate finance. Banking and insurance underwriting are also open to finance majors. And of course entrepreneurship is another route thats open to finance types.
The Difference Between Finance and Accounting: Salaries
Theres a wide salary range in the fields of both finance and accounting. Both fields have strong growth prospects between now and 2024, as projected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Lets take a look at a few examples of salaries and growth prospects.
According to the BLS, the median pay for a Financial Analyst in 2014 was $78,620 per year, $37.80 per hour. Between 2014 and 2024, the number of Financial Analyst jobs is projected to grow by 12%, a faster-than-average growth rate.
Accountants and Auditors have a median pay of $65,940 per year, $31.70 per hour. The number of jobs is projected to increase by 11% between 2014 and 2024, which is also an above-average growth rate.
Lets take a look at an example on the lower end of the scale. According to the BLS, the median pay for Bookkeeping, Accounting, and Auditing Clerks in 2014 was $36,430 per year, $17.51 per hour. The number of jobs is projected to decline by 8% between 2014 and 2024. As you can see, the field of accounting has both high-salary, high-growth jobs and lower-salary, negative-growth jobs.
Salaries in finance tend to be high, but there are exceptions. One example is fundraisers. The median pay for fundraisers is $52,430 per year, $25.21 per hour. However, the job outlook is for 9% growth between 2014 and 2024, still above average. The BLS puts fundraisers in the “Business and Financial” category, but many fundraisers dont have a finance degree. (That may be one of the reasons for the lower pay).

BANK:
What is the difference between banking and finance?
Follow Upvote Report QuestionComments (0)
Register to Answer this Question
Register
Log in if you're already a Bayt.com member.
•	1 Answers
 By Rehan Qureshi , Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Rafid Factory for Steel Industries LLC. - 4 years ago
Finance is generally related to all types of financial, this could be accounting, insurances, and policies. Whereas banking is everything that happens in a bank only. The term Banking and Finance are two very different terms but are often associated together. These two terms are often used to denote services that a bank and other financial institutions provide to its customers. Banking and finance is also referred to as a term of managing your money by investing it in either banks or other financial institutions. It is very important that you invest your money in case it is sitting idle. By investing your money, you have a high chance of making a profit on that money and you would be doing the country proud by investing as that money will be used for the betterment of the country and it will be returned to you after a fixed period of time along with the interest whenever you set the time limit.

BANK:
The Difference Between Accounting and Finance
Amelia Josephson MAY 21, 2018
SHARE
 
 
 
 
 

If youre going back to school, choosing your undergraduate major or just curious about the finance and accounting worlds, you may be wondering what the difference is between accounting and finance. The two fields arent a world apart, but there are important differences that are worth knowing. Let us break it down for you.
Check out our investment calculator. 
Accounting vs. Finance: The Basics
The difference between finance and accounting is that accounting focuses on the day-to-day flow of money in and out of a company or institution, whereas finance is a broader term for the management of assets and liabilities and the planning of future growth.
If you want to exercise high-level control over a companys strategy, finance could be for you. If you want to take a detailed look at a companys books youre probably more interested in accounting. Its often said that accounting looks back to a companys past financial transactions, whereas finance looks forward to plan future acquisition of assets.
Accounting is more about accurate reporting of what has already happened and compliance with laws and standards. Finance is about looking forward and growing a pot of money or mitigating losses. If you like thinking in terms of a longer time horizon you may be happier in finance than in accounting.
If you want to study accounting you can expect to take classes in accounting practices and accounting ethics, business law, tax law and accounting theory. If you study finance youll likely spend some time on macroeconomics and international finance in your classes, as well as on financial engineering and corporate finance.
Making the Choice: Finance vs. Accounting

The difference between finance and accounting may just be a matter of idle curiosity for some of us, but if youre choosing a college major or a career, its an important distinction. Particularly if youre planning to take on student loans, you probably want to be sure that youre choosing the right path.
Choose accounting and if you work for a big company youll likely report to the companys Chief Financial Officer. You could have a job title like Controller, Tax Manager, Fund Accountant, Valuation Analyst or Financial Reporting Accountant. Alternatively, you could become a Tax Accountant, a Bookkeeper, Treasurer or Auditor, for yourself, a business, a non-profit or the government.
As an accounting professional youll be tracking and reporting flows of money and ensuring compliance with best practices. Youll rely on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and youll likely come to be familiar with the tax code, too. Section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code will be your friend. Thats the section of the tax code that covers “General rules for methods of accounting.”
If you choose finance you have a different range of options. You could become a financial analyst, investment banker, financial examiner, personal financial advisor or money manager. You could work in consulting or corporate finance. Banking and insurance underwriting are also open to finance majors. And of course entrepreneurship is another route thats open to finance types.
The Difference Between Finance and Accounting: Salaries
Theres a wide salary range in the fields of both finance and accounting. Both fields have strong growth prospects between now and 2024, as projected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Lets take a look at a few examples of salaries and growth prospects.
According to the BLS, the median pay for a Financial Analyst in 2014 was $78,620 per year, $37.80 per hour. Between 2014 and 2024, the number of Financial Analyst jobs is projected to grow by 12%, a faster-than-average growth rate.
Accountants and Auditors have a median pay of $65,940 per year, $31.70 per hour. The number of jobs is projected to increase by 11% between 2014 and 2024, which is also an above-average growth rate.
Lets take a look at an example on the lower end of the scale. According to the BLS, the median pay for Bookkeeping, Accounting, and Auditing Clerks in 2014 was $36,430 per year, $17.51 per hour. The number of jobs is projected to decline by 8% between 2014 and 2024. As you can see, the field of accounting has both high-salary, high-growth jobs and lower-salary, negative-growth jobs.
Salaries in finance tend to be high, but there are exceptions. One example is fundraisers. The median pay for fundraisers is $52,430 per year, $25.21 per hour. However, the job outlook is for 9% growth between 2014 and 2024, still above average. The BLS puts fundraisers in the “Business and Financial” category, but many fundraisers dont have a finance degree. (That may be one of the reasons for the lower pay).
Bottom Line

If you work in accounting your recording and reporting of financial transactions will support the work of the finance team. Likewise, if youre in finance youre depending on the clear and accurate work of the folks in accounting. Both fields require a high level of skill, education and comfort with quantitative analysis. And (with luck and hard work on your side) both have the potential to provide challenging work thats well compensated.

BANK:
How the financial services sector differs from banks
By Sean Ross | Updated July 16, 2018 — 11:25 PM EDT


Banking is a subset of the financial services sector, although not all bank services are strictly defined as financial services. To fully understand the difference between a financial services institution and a bank, or a financial service and banking service, you may want to think of the distinction between the provision of a good and the intermediation of a service.
Comparing Financial Goods to Financial Services
According to the Finance and Development department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), a financial service is best described as the process by which a consumer or business acquires a financial good.
For example, a payment system provider is providing a financial service when it is able to accept and transfer funds from a payer to a recipient. This includes accounts that are settled through credit and debit cards, checks and electronic funds transfers.
Consider a financial advisor. The advisor manages assets and offers advice on behalf of a client. The advisor does not directly provide investments or any other product. Instead, the advisor facilitates the movement of funds between savers and the issuers of securities and other instruments. This service is a temporary task rather than a tangible asset.
Financial goods are not tasks; they are things. A mortgage loan may seem like a service, but it's actually a product that lasts beyond the initial provision. Stocks, bonds, loans, commodity assets, real estate and insurance policies are examples of financial goods.
The Difference Between Banks and the Financial Services Sector
Traditional banks offer both financial services and financial goods. A saver might open a savings account, wire funds and/or take out a car loan all from the same bank. Clearly, the bank is a provider of financial services and should be considered part of the financial services sector.
Even the federal government includes banks in its description of the financial services sector. The Department of Homeland Security suggests that small community banks and credit unions are also part of this sector.
There are many members of the financial services sector that are not banks, though. Investment agencies and stock market brokers are not banks, but they certainly provide financial services. Their services are only intermediate services, not end goods. This distinction is similar to how economists distinguish between capital goods and consumer goods; an orange can be a consumer good if it is directly eaten by a consumer, but it can also be a capital good if a deli owner uses the orange to make juice.
In a more aggregate sense, the banking industry is most concerned with direct saving and lending while the financial services sector incorporates investments, insurance, the redistribution of risk, and other financial activities. Banks earn revenue primarily on the difference in the interest ratescharged for credit accounts and the rates paid to depositors. Financial services primarily earn revenue through fees, commissions, and other methods.


Read more: How the financial services sector differs from banks | Investopedia https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/030415/what-distinguishes-financial-services-sector-banks.asp#ixzz5PhIHv6ek 
Follow us: Investopedia on Facebook

BANK:
he Banking System: Commercial Banking - How Banks Make Money
By Stephen D. Simpson, CFA

  SHARE
 
 
 
 

1.	The Banking System: Introduction
2.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - What Banks Do
3.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - Economic Concepts in Banking
4.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - How Banks Make Money
5.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - Business Lending
6.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - Operations
7.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - How Banks Are Regulated
8.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - Where Commercial Banks Are Vulnerable
9.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - Bank Crises And Panics
10.	The Banking System: Commercial Banking - Key Ratios/Factors
11.	The Banking System: Federal Reserve System
12.	The Banking System: Non-Bank Financial Institutions
13.	The Banking System: Conclusion

ByStephen D. Simpson, CFA

As mentioned before, banks basically make money by lending money at rates higher than the cost of the money they lend. More specifically, banks collect interest on loans and interest payments from the debt securities they own, and pay interest on deposits, CDs, and short-term borrowings. The difference is known as the "spread," or the net interest income, and when that net interest income is divided by the bank's earning assets, it is known as the net interest margin. 

Deposits
The largest source by far of funds for banks is deposits; money that account holders entrust to the bank for safekeeping and use in future transactions, as well as modest amounts of interest. Generally referred to as "core deposits," these are typically the checking and savings accounts that so many people currently have. 

In most cases, these deposits have very short terms. While people will typically maintain accounts for years at a time with a particular bank, the customer reserves the right to withdraw the full amount at any time. Customers have the option to withdraw money upon demand and the balances are fully insured, up to $250,000, therefore, banks do not have to pay much for this money. Many banks pay no interest at all on checking account balances, or at least pay very little, and pay interest rates for savings accounts that are well below U.S. Treasury bond rates. (For more, check out Are Your Bank Deposits Insured?)

Wholesale Deposits
If a bank cannot attract a sufficient level of core deposits, that bank can turn to wholesale sources of funds. In many respects these wholesale funds are much like interbank CDs. There is nothing necessarily wrong with wholesale funds, but investors should consider what it says about a bank when it relies on this funding source. While some banks de-emphasize the branch-based deposit-gathering model, in favor of wholesale funding, heavy reliance on this source of capital can be a warning that a bank is not as competitive as its peers. 

Investors should also note that the higher cost of wholesale funding means that a bank either has to settle for a narrower interest spread, and lower profits, or pursue higher yields from its lending and investing, which usually means taking on greater risk.

Share Equity
While deposits are the pimary source of loanable funds for almost every bank, shareholder equity is an important part of a bank's capital. Several important regulatory ratios are based upon the amount of shareholder capital a bank has and shareholder capital is, in many cases, the only capital that a bank knows will not disappear.

Common equity is straight forward. This is capital that the bank has raised by selling shares to outside investors. While banks, especially larger banks, do often pay dividends on their common shares, there is no requirement for them to do so.

Banks often issue preferred shares to raise capital. As this capital is expensive, and generally issued only in times of trouble, or to facilitate an acquisition, banks will often make these shares callable.This gives the bank the right to buy back the shares at a time when the capital position is stronger, and the bank no longer needs such expensive capital.

Equity capital is expensive, therefore, banks generally only issue shares when they need to raise funds for an acquisition, or when they need to repair their capital position, typically after a period of elevated bad loans. Apart from the initial capital raised to fund a new bank, banks do not typically issue equity in order to fund loans. 

Debt
Banks will also raise capital through debt issuance. Banks most often use debt to smooth out the ups and downs in their funding needs, and will call upon sources like repurchase agreements or the Federal Home Loan Bank system, to access debt funding on a short term basis.

There is frankly nothing particularly unusual about bank-issued debt, and like regular corporations, bank bonds may be callable and/or convertible. Although debt is relatively common on bank balance sheets, it is not a critical source of capital for most banks. Although debt/equity ratios are typically over 100% in the banking sector, this is largely a function of the relatively low level of equity at most banks. Seen differently, debt is usually a much smaller percentage of total deposits or loans at most banks and is, accordingly, not a vital source of loanable funds. (To learn more, see our Debt Ratios Tutorial.)

Use of Funds
Loans
For most banks, loans are the primary use of their funds and the principal way in which they earn income. Loans are typically made for fixed terms, at fixed rates and are typically secured with real property; often the property that the loan is going to be used to purchase. While banks will make loans with variable or adjustable interest rates and borrowers can often repay loans early, with little or no penalty, banks generally shy away from these kinds of loans, as it can be difficult to match them with appropriate funding sources. 

Part and parcel of a bank's lending practices is its evaluation of the credit worthiness of a potential borrower and the ability to charge different rates of interest, based upon that evaluation. When considering a loan, banks will often evaluate the income, assets and debt of the prospective borrower, as well as the credit history of the borrower. The purpose of the loan is also a factor in the loan underwriting decision; loans taken out to purchase real property, such as homes, cars, inventory, etc., are generally considered less risky, as there is an underlying asset of some value that the bank can reclaim in the event of nonpayment.

As such, banks play an under-appreciated role in the economy. To some extent, bank loan officers decide which projects, and/or businesses, are worth pursuing and are deserving of capital.

Consumer Lending
Consumer lending makes up the bulk of North American bank lending, and of this, residential mortgages make up by far the largest share. Mortgages are used to buy residences and the homes themselves are often the security that collateralizes the loan. Mortgages are typically written for 30 year repayment periods and interest rates may be fixed, adjustable, or variable. Although a variety of more exotic mortgage products were offered during the U.S. housing bubble of the 2000s, many of the riskier products, including "pick-a-payment" mortgages and negative amortization loans, are much less common now.

Automobile lending is another significant category of secured lending for many banks. Compared to mortgage lending, auto loans are typically for shorter terms and higher rates. Banks face extensive competition in auto lending from other financial institutions, like captive auto financing operations run by automobile manufacturers and dealers. 

Prior to the collapse of the housing bubble, home equity lending was a fast-growing segment of consumer lending for many banks. Home equity lending basically involves lending money to consumers, for whatever purposes they wish, with the equity in their home, that is, the difference between the appraised value of the home and any outstanding mortgage, as the collateral. 

As the cost of post-secondary education continues to rise, more and more students find that they have to take out loans to pay for their education. Accordingly, student lending has been a growth market for many banks. Student lending is typically unsecured and there are three primary types of student loans in the United States: federally sponsored subsidized loans, where the federal government pays the interest while the student is in school, federally sponsored unsubsidized loans and private loans. 

Credit cards are another significant lending type and an interesting case. Credit cards are, in essence, personal lines of credit that can be drawn down at any time. While Visa and MasterCard are well-known names in credit cards, they do not actually underwrite any of the lending. Visa and MasterCard simply run the proprietary networks through which money (debits and credits) is moved around between the shopper's bank and the merchant's bank, after a transaction. 

Not all banks engage in credit card lending and the rates of default are traditionally much higher than in mortgage lending or other types of secured lending. That said, credit card lending delivers lucrative fees for banks: Interchange fees charged to merchants for accepting the card and entering into the transaction, late-payment fees, currency exchange, over-the-limit and other fees for the card user, as well as elevated rates on the balances that credit card users carry, from one month to the next. (To learn how to avoid getting nickeled and dimed by your bank, check out Cut Your Bank Fees.)
BANK:
Despite record profits, banks are playing the victim
by Matt Egan   @MattEganCNNMarch 15, 2018: 4:24 PM ET
Play Video
Warren: Banking bill risks another bailout
It's taken nearly a decade, but the regulatory pendulum is swinging back in favor of banks.
Safeguards designed to prevent another crisis could be removed if the just-passed Senate banking bill becomes law. The legislation, which received support from 17 Democrats, loosens regulations for community banks, regional lenders and mortgage companies.
Content by MyFinance
	

This Incredible Card Offers 0% APR Until Nearly 2020
	

Online Savings Account Rates Beat Your Banks

	

New: 60,000 bonus points after qualifying purchases

Powered by  
The deregulation push illustrates a role reversal for the banking industry. In the aftermath of the 2008 meltdown, they were villainized. Now they're casting themselves as the victims of government regulation run amok.
But banks aren't exactly starving. In fact, the industry as a whole has been booming for some time — and that was before the gifts of lower taxes and lighter regulation.
America's banks hauled in $164.8 billion in profit last year, according to the FDIC. Take out the short-term accounting hit because of the tax law and profit looks even better — up 7% to an all-time high of $183.1 billion.
It's tough to argue that banks didn't have enough money to lend with. On the contrary, banks had so much cash that they returned a ton of it to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
US banks paid $121.4 billion in dividends in 2017, the most since the FDIC started keeping track in 1984. Last year's dividend boom took out the previous record of $110.4 billion from 2007, the year before the meltdown.
Related: What's in the Senate banking bill
"This is a phony argument," said Phil Angelides, who led the official inquiry into the 2008 financial crisis.
"We have had a sustained period of financial stability, expanding economy and record bank profits," he said. "There is no justification for changing what has been a successful law."
It's certainly true that not all banks are created equal. A mega bank like Citigroup (C) is vastly different from a tiny community bank in Ohio.
Yet community banks are doing better as well. Excluding one-time tax charges, fourth-quarter profits among community banks soared 17%, the FDIC says.
Contrast the strength of banks' bottom lines with the comments from industry groups and lawmakers supporting the Senate bill.
"The cycle of lending and job creation has been stifled by onerous regulation," said Senator Mike Crapo, the Republican sponsor of the bill and chair of the Senate Banking Committee.
On the floor of the Senate, Crapo said the legislation would "deliver much-needed relief and economic growth to Main Street America."
The Financial Services Roundtable, one of the most powerful banking lobbies, called the bill a "major first step to boost economic growth and help expand opportunity for more Americans."
Related: Wells Fargo CEO gets a 36% raise
Yet opponents of the rollback of Dodd-Frank characterized the legislation as a cash grab by banks.
"Bankers are popping champagne," Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren tweeted. She slammed Republicans and Democrats for passing a bill that will "set the stage for another financial crash."
The Crapo bill created a divide among Democrats. Senator Mark Warner and others who supported Dodd-Frank in 2010 threw their weight behind this legislation.
Warner called it a "sensible, bipartisan" bill that will "roll back unnecessary and burdensome regulations on credit unions and small community banks."
Analysts have said there may be truth to the argument that community banks were unfairly caught up in regulations intended to rein in big banks. Even Barney Frank, one of the authors of the 2010 reform law, has favored helping smaller lenders that have faced higher legal costs.
"In our efforts to properly constrain the big banks — and they needed it — we bludgeoned thousands of community banks with restraints they don't need," said Paul Friedman, a senior executive at Bear Stearns up until its collapse a decade ago.
But Angelides notes that the Crapo bill does more than just help the tiniest banks.
The legislation would raise the threshold at which banks are considered too big to fail from $50 billion to $250 billion. That would free about two dozen large banks below the size of Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) from the toughest scrutiny from the Federal Reserve.
"What does relieving 25 of the 38 biggest banks have to do with community banks?" Angelides said. "Zero."
The bill would also allow the Federal Reserve to stress-test banks less frequently and shield midsize banks from the process entirely.
The question is how far the legislative and administrative rollback of crisis-era rules will go. Will regulation move into equilibrium, or will the pendulum swing too far?
"Regulators, like generals, always fight the last war," said Friedman, the former Bear Stearns executive. "There will be another crisis, somewhere. Hopefully it will be a lot less severe than the last one."
Bank lobby groups signaled in their statements on Wednesday that further deregulatory efforts are underway.
"This is just the start," Angelides said. "They are not going to let up. They are going to keep pushing and pushing."

BANK:
Despite record profits, banks are playing the victim
by Matt Egan   @MattEganCNNMarch 15, 2018: 4:24 PM ET
Play Video
Warren: Banking bill risks another bailout
It's taken nearly a decade, but the regulatory pendulum is swinging back in favor of banks.
Safeguards designed to prevent another crisis could be removed if the just-passed Senate banking bill becomes law. The legislation, which received support from 17 Democrats, loosens regulations for community banks, regional lenders and mortgage companies.
Content by MyFinance
•	

This Incredible Card Offers 0% APR Until Nearly 2020

•	

Online Savings Account Rates Beat Your Banks

•	

New: 60,000 bonus points after qualifying purchases

Powered by  
The deregulation push illustrates a role reversal for the banking industry. In the aftermath of the 2008 meltdown, they were villainized. Now they're casting themselves as the victims of government regulation run amok.
But banks aren't exactly starving. In fact, the industry as a whole has been booming for some time — and that was before the gifts of lower taxes and lighter regulation.
America's banks hauled in $164.8 billion in profit last year, according to the FDIC. Take out the short-term accounting hit because of the tax law and profit looks even better — up 7% to an all-time high of $183.1 billion.
It's tough to argue that banks didn't have enough money to lend with. On the contrary, banks had so much cash that they returned a ton of it to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
US banks paid $121.4 billion in dividends in 2017, the most since the FDIC started keeping track in 1984. Last year's dividend boom took out the previous record of $110.4 billion from 2007, the year before the meltdown.
Related: What's in the Senate banking bill
"This is a phony argument," said Phil Angelides, who led the official inquiry into the 2008 financial crisis.
"We have had a sustained period of financial stability, expanding economy and record bank profits," he said. "There is no justification for changing what has been a successful law."
It's certainly true that not all banks are created equal. A mega bank like Citigroup (C) is vastly different from a tiny community bank in Ohio.
Yet community banks are doing better as well. Excluding one-time tax charges, fourth-quarter profits among community banks soared 17%, the FDIC says.
Contrast the strength of banks' bottom lines with the comments from industry groups and lawmakers supporting the Senate bill.
"The cycle of lending and job creation has been stifled by onerous regulation," said Senator Mike Crapo, the Republican sponsor of the bill and chair of the Senate Banking Committee.
On the floor of the Senate, Crapo said the legislation would "deliver much-needed relief and economic growth to Main Street America."
The Financial Services Roundtable, one of the most powerful banking lobbies, called the bill a "major first step to boost economic growth and help expand opportunity for more Americans."
Related: Wells Fargo CEO gets a 36% raise
Yet opponents of the rollback of Dodd-Frank characterized the legislation as a cash grab by banks.
"Bankers are popping champagne," Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren tweeted. She slammed Republicans and Democrats for passing a bill that will "set the stage for another financial crash."
The Crapo bill created a divide among Democrats. Senator Mark Warner and others who supported Dodd-Frank in 2010 threw their weight behind this legislation.
Warner called it a "sensible, bipartisan" bill that will "roll back unnecessary and burdensome regulations on credit unions and small community banks."
Analysts have said there may be truth to the argument that community banks were unfairly caught up in regulations intended to rein in big banks. Even Barney Frank, one of the authors of the 2010 reform law, has favored helping smaller lenders that have faced higher legal costs.
"In our efforts to properly constrain the big banks — and they needed it — we bludgeoned thousands of community banks with restraints they don't need," said Paul Friedman, a senior executive at Bear Stearns up until its collapse a decade ago.
But Angelides notes that the Crapo bill does more than just help the tiniest banks.
The legislation would raise the threshold at which banks are considered too big to fail from $50 billion to $250 billion. That would free about two dozen large banks below the size of Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) from the toughest scrutiny from the Federal Reserve.
"What does relieving 25 of the 38 biggest banks have to do with community banks?" Angelides said. "Zero."
The bill would also allow the Federal Reserve to stress-test banks less frequently and shield midsize banks from the process entirely.
The question is how far the legislative and administrative rollback of crisis-era rules will go. Will regulation move into equilibrium, or will the pendulum swing too far?
"Regulators, like generals, always fight the last war," said Friedman, the former Bear Stearns executive. "There will be another crisis, somewhere. Hopefully it will be a lot less severe than the last one."
Bank lobby groups signaled in their statements on Wednesday that further deregulatory efforts are underway.
"This is just the start," Angelides said. "They are not going to let up. They are going to keep pushing and pushing."

BANK:
The worlds most profitable banks can be found in India
Roiled by frauds and surging NPAs, Indias state-run banks have returned the least to investors. However, its newest lenders offer the best returns and a clutch of private Indian banks are among the worlds most expensive
Last Published: Fri, May 25 2018. 10 02 AM IST
Bloomberg
 

Goldman Sachs Group this month initiated coverage on Bandhan Bank Ltd with a “buy” call. Photo: Mint
Mumbai: Indias economic and credit slowdown is revealing the strengths and weaknesses of its banking sector.
Roiled by unprecedented frauds and surging bad debt, the nations state-run banks have returned the least to investors this year. However, investors belief in the potential of Asias No. 3 economy shows in the fact that its newest lenders offer the best returns, and a clutch of private Indian banks are among the worlds most expensive.
For instance, AU Small Finance Bank Ltds return-on-equity, a measure of profitability, was 56% compared with about 15% for China Construction Bank, 11% for JPMorgan Chase & Co. and an average 11.3% across 430 global lenders with a market cap of over $2 billion.
“Indias banks have had a sharply divided run—while consumer banks are riding the crest of consumption and strong and good quality credit demand, wholesale banks are saddled with restructuring challenges of the economy,” said Aditya Narain, an analyst at Edelweiss Securities Ltd.
“More tellingly, credit challenges faced by wholesale banks have led to them becoming significantly risk averse, opening up a very large market for well capitalized and confident retail banks to aggressively make marketshare gains.”
Fresh challengers
A decision by former central bank governor Raghuram Rajan to create new banks for the first time in more than a decade have yielded two fresh lenders that investors are bullish about. Singapores state investment firm Temasek Holdings Pte bought about 5% of AU Small Finance Bank for $147 million this month and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this month initiated coverage on Bandhan Bank Ltd with a “buy” call.
Theres also about a year to go for national elections, a period during which the government spends more on the hinterland to win votes. Bandhan is focused on the underbanked regions of eastern India. “This is a high-yield business,” said Jaikishan Parmar, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. “We expect that Bandhan would continue to grow at a healthy rate and maintain higher net interest margins.”
Indian private-sector banks are also among the most richly valued. HDFC Bank Ltd in January became only the third Indian company whose market cap has crossed the Rs5-trillion mark and Goldman sees it hitting $100 billion by 2020. The lender last month reported the strongest fee income in the past eight quarters and retail loans form 70% of its total lending.
IndusInd Bank Ltd trimmed its exposure to companies rated “BBB” and below to less than 38% from more than 48% a year ago. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd retained its strong credit growth without worsening asset quality. The key risk for Kotak Mahindra stems from continued stress in the economy, which could hit demand for commercial vehicles and construction equipment, according to Edelweisss Narain.
The same could be said for Kotaks peers as Goldmans economists trimmed their growth forecast for India amid concerns that woes in the state-run bank sector are worse than thought. Bad loans across government-controlled banks are more than double total market cap.
State Bank of India, the nations biggest lender by assets, reported a record $1 billion loss this week for the quarter ended 31 March as provisions surged and rival Punjab National Bank reported Indias largest ever bank loss after a $2 billion fraud came to light.
Half of Indias 22 state-run banks with 20% of the sectors total loans are under the regulators strict Prompt Corrective Action program. Five more—some 16% of advances—could be brought into the framework that restricts lending and expansion, according to Edelweiss.
Despite the governments “recapitalization of public sector banks, they are likely to face challenges to meet the regulatory capital ratios amid mounting credit provisions,” said Karthik Srinivasan, an analyst at ICRA Ltd.
The local unit of Moodys Investors Service estimates lending by Indias overall banking sector will grow about 8% in the year through March 2019, even though private banks will expand credit by some 25%.
BANK:


BANK:
What is the difference between finance and banking?
Ad by Upwardly.in

Invest in these top equity mutual funds and double your returns.

These funds have doubled investments in 2.5 years. Start investing with as low as Rs. 500 per month.

Start now at upwardly.in
5 Answers

Willox Gaulard, Business Process Associate at Cogneesol - Outsourcing Company (2010-present)
Answered Jun 16, 2017 · Author has 116 answers and 66.1k answer views
These terms are quiet similar to each other but very distinct in terms of services provided by banking and non banking financial service provider.
Finance
It includes the number of companies that gives accounting services, specially outsource accounting service providers. You will get the services like, reconciliation, managing account payable, receivable, financial reporting, payroll processing, bookkeeping and tax preparation. They provide you coverage about future business growth or crisis. They manage money in a manner that increases investor wealth. Financial research firms – provide large corporations analysis and insight into investment decisions.
Banking
For day to day transaction, we need a bank. Small to large scale businesses also obtains the services of the banking system. There are two types of banks, commercial bank and investment bank. The services provided by a commercial bank are called banking services,which include obtaining deposits from customers and providing loans. These banks operate simply - customers deposit there money in bank for safe place for the surplus funds and than bank give this money as loan to other customers, for a fee known as an interest payment.


BANK:
How to Calculate Profitability Ratios for Banks
These three ratios can give you a good idea of how well a bank uses its resources to generate profits.
To determine the profitability of banks, simply looking at the earnings per share isn't quite enough. It's also important to know how efficiently a bank is using its assets and equity to generate profits. For this reason, three key profitability ratios to look at when evaluating a bank stock are:
•	Return on assets (ROA)
•	Return on equity (ROE)
•	Net interest margin (NIM)
Here's how to calculate each one, as well as an example of each using 2015 data from Wells Fargo.
Return on assets
To calculate a bank's return on assets, you need to know two pieces of information. First, you need to find the net income, which can be found on the bank's income statement. Next, you need to find the bank's assets (loans, securities, cash, etc.), which can be found on the bank's balance sheet. To calculate return on assets, simply divide the net income by the total assets, then multiply by 100 to express it as a percentage.
 
As an example, Wells Fargo produced net income of just over $23 billion in 2015, and had total assets of $1.787 trillion at the end of the year. Dividing these two numbers and multiplying by 100 shows a ROA of 1.29%.
Now, we're going to complicate things just a little. If you want the most accurate calculation possible for ROA (or ROE), you need to take an average of the assets or equity over the time period you're considering. In the case of a bank's annual ROE, the best practice is to take the average of the assets at the end of the last five quarters. For Wells Fargo, the five-quarter average assets were $1.737 trillion, which produces a slightly higher ROA of 1.32%.
Return on equity
For return on equity, you'll need the net income as well as the total shareholders' equity, which can be found on the balance sheet. The formula for ROE is similar to the ROA formula, except that you divide by equity instead.
 
Continuing our Wells Fargo example, we can determine that the bank's five-quarter average equity is $189.8 billion. Using this, along with the bank's $23 billion in net income shows a ROE of 12.1%.
Net interest margin
Finally, to calculate the net interest margin, you need to determine the bank's net interest income. You can find this on the income statement, or you can subtract the bank's interest expense from its interest income. Then, divide this by the bank's assets. Similarly to the other two metrics, use a five-quarter average of assets in order to produce an accurate NIM.
 
For Wells Fargo, its income statement shows 2015 interest income of $49.28 billion, and interest expense of $3.98 billion. Therefore, we can calculate its net interest income as $45.3 billion, and its net interest margin as 2.6%.
So, what is "good" profitability?
In terms of ROA and ROE, 1% and 10%, respectively are generally considered to be good performance numbers. And, for the fourth quarter of 2015, the industry averages were 1.03% (ROA) and 9.21% (ROE). Net interest margin tends to fluctuate over time depending on the prevailing interest rates -- that is, interest margins tend to be higher when market interest rates are up. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the industrywide average NIM was 3.02%, but was as high as 4.91% in the mid-1990s.
If you're interested in investing in bank stocks -- or any stocks, for that matter -- you can pop over to our broker center to get started!
This article is part of The Motley Fool's Knowledge Center, which was created based on the collected wisdom of a fantastic community of investors. We'd love to hear your questions, thoughts, and opinions on the Knowledge Center in general or this page in particular. Your input will help us help the world invest, better! Email us at knowledgecenter@fool.com. Thanks -- and Fool on!



?


