Med:
5 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION TRENDS FOR HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY IN 2018

 Vishal
November 16, 2017
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY TRENDS

Every nation is vying to improve their life expectancy rate. It is an indicator of any nations wholesome development. To achieve greater life expectancy, the quality of the healthcare services needs to be checked and improved. The quality of healthcare services is directly proportional to the healthcare expenditure. This is very problematic and is a major challenge for all the countries around the globe.
Some see digital transformation and digitization as a stepping stone to reduce the excessive healthcare expenditure.  Now, the big players in this healthcare ecosystem are all pushing and pressing for the need of digital transformation. But the success of this effort relies on the vast reach of the digitization technology. It should reach all the nooks and corner of any nation.
When we are talking so much about the digital transformation in the healthcare sector, do we really know what it is and how it helps? Digital transformation is not just about buying new technologies and latest tools that can ease the process of healthcare procedures, but it is also about changing the operational process in the healthcare sector and making it more automatic and efficient.
Digital transformation focuses more on information handling. If the information gathered from the modern digital devices can be channelized effectively, it can be structured to give automated responses to the existing and upcoming health problems. Merely purchasing a technology will not produce any result. There must be a plan about how we are going to use that technology to engage with the whole process of health care revamp.
In some parts of the world, the planning to engage digitization with healthcare has started to produce results. If we look at the top digital transformation trends in the healthcare sector, you will have a fair idea about its future. Lets discuss the
5 DIGITAL TRENDS THAT ARE TRANSFORMING THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY AFTER THE RISE IN TECHNOLOGY.
1. CLOUD COMPUTING IN HEALTHCARE
The cloud access technology has increased the accessibility for both the patients and doctor alike. The patients are now accessing their test results on the cloud without passing through the nerve-racking phase of waiting. In some developed countries, it is expected that by 2018, more than 60% of the interactions with the healthcare experts and facilities will take place using mobile devices. The educated doctor fraternity is already using a medical app of one kind or the other and they frequently access the drug info with its help.
Paper filing of the patients record is becoming a thing of the past. Hospitals and private doctors are all storing the patient records over the cloud and connecting the patients with the cloud to get 24/7 access to their medical records and test results. To confirm the laws of patient privacy, they are also focusing pretty well on the healthcare IT infrastructure and data security.
2. TELEMEDICINE IN HEALTHCARE:
Do you know what telemedicine is? Well, telemedicine involves the use of telecommunication technology to remotely diagnose and treat the patients. In a survey back in 2016, it was found that doctors consider telemedicine as a better way to treat chronic diseases. They say that the traditional office visits to doctors are more tiresome and demoralizing for patients.
With telemedicine, patients can receive the best possible healthcare, if they just have a smartphone and a smarter internet connection. It saves time and money for both the doctor and the patient. Telemedicine is finding enormous success in the field of mental health care. The patients needing emotional support are finding quick access to therapists on just a click of the button at a much-reduced cost.
3. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN THE HEALTHCARE SECTOR
Data is the leader in the digital world. Manipulation and channelization of the data are proving revolutionary in all the fields of digital transformation. By measuring the customer satisfaction to identifying risk factors for the patients, artificial intelligence is proving its worth everywhere. There is a new concept being discussed globally, which is the Internet of (Medical) Thing (IoMT). Using this concept, mobile and wearable devices are connected to work as a cohesive self, to create medical health reports and data.
Apart from being helpful for the patients, this data is also helpful in predicting ongoing healthcare trends in any part of the world.

4.  WEARABLES IN HEALTHCARE:
Going to a local grocery store or dispensary, to measure blood pressure or weight has all become a thing of the past owing to an increase in the use of wearable devices. Do you know that even your smartphone with healthcare mobile application can perform DIY blood tests, ECGs, record temperatures and heartbeats?
The automation in the healthcare sector has made it possible to send automatic prompts to the patients about when is the correct time for their weight, sugar, oxygen level or pulse check. After the correct checkup, patients can enter the results in the portals especially designed for the patients. Even the real-time result transmission has become a reality. Now, with a little pro-activeness and no labor, patients can minimize the risk of bigger diseases like heart stroke, lungs failure etc.  
5. ROBOTS IN HEALTHCARE:
The inclusion of Healthcare robots in hospitals is a much talked about and debated concept in the field of healthcare digital transformation. Does it seems futuristic? Well, it is not. According to IDC, by the year 2019, there will be a 50% increase in the use of robots. These robots will do automated tasks of delivering medications, food, and medical supplements.
WRAPUP:
I think, that now, you may have got a glimpse of what is going on in the field of medical digital transformation and what is expected from it in the future. This transformation seems to be more beneficial for the patients. It seems that if this digital transformation takes full force, the patients will be in the drivers seat. They will get better and full access to quality doctors and healthcare facilities at a very affordable cost.


Med:
Supporting the digital transformation of the healthcare industry
By thrusting the whole of society into the information age, the digital revolution has fundamentally altered the way in which companies in all sectors innovate, behave and communicate.
With the same disruptive power as the industrial revolution, it is changing their business models, structures, culture and management styles. The healthcare industry is facing this major upheaval too.
In these times of personalised medicine, connected healthcare and quantified self, it needs to take stock of its position and review its business model. It will have to make adjustments in order to respond to those new to the sector, such as Start-ups but also Big Tech companies and major players on the internet, attracted by the convergence of the well-being, prevention, care and medication industries. There is even talk of the uberisation of healthcare!
Patients, too, have evolved from passive beings into individuals who play a full role in their care pathway, demanding a greater degree of involvement, responsibility and knowledge sharing.
With that in mind, value creation in the healthcare sector no longer relies solely on medication or medical devices, but on the services and solutions that surround the treatment, too. Indeed, digital technology generates genuine opportunities for innovation in healthcare services and advances. Opportunities to be seized by the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the medical equipment industry.
Key figures:
	97.5% of healthcare industry stakeholders think that digital technology is a strategic issue for them.
	Xerfi Precepta estimates the eHealth market at 2.4 billion. In France, it is expected to grow by 4-7% per year by 2017.
	The connected medical devices market is expected to be worth $33.5 billion in 2019.
	Between one third and one half of the annual worldwide economic impact of the internet of things will focus on the healthcare sector in 2025.
	38,000 people in France have a connected implanted cardiac rhythm management device. Savings gained from connected cardiac implants amount to 315 per patient, per year.  
 
In practical terms, how is digital technology revolutionising the healthcare industry?
In France and all over the world, digital technology is seen as a real opportunity for pharmaceutical laboratories and medical device manufacturers.
Pharmaceutical industry
The pharmaceutical industry is faced with reconsidering its traditional business model that is based on its blockbuster drugs. It is, therefore, being forced to rethink its position in relation to all stakeholders in the healthcare system, including patients.
At a time of debate on regulation of healthcare expenses, of publication of reports on the proper use of medication and of heightened interest in prevention, the pharmaceutical industry is being encouraged to take on a new role as service provider and health promoter.
	Digital technology is, therefore, becoming a new area of innovation, particularly in terms of prevention and therapeutic education, but also, in addition to therapeutic solutions, to offer related services designed to improve provision, monitoring or coordination of care.
	The digital revolution could also very quickly impact the organisation of laboratories from the point of view of research and development. The use of Big Data techniques should basically mean that they can optimise the processing of data collected during the phases of clinical trials to develop models to predict the physiological effects of compounds and so speed up their development. But digital technology may also make it easier to recruit patients for these clinical trials and for hospitals, research institutions and even funding bodies to collaborate on new research programmes.	 	 	 	 
Medtechs
A similar logic applies to the medical equipment companies.
The squeeze on healthcare expenditure means they have to develop connected medical devices.
At the same time, the spread of quantified self solutions means that these new devices are more readily accepted by patients.
The underlying idea is, of course, to foster a continuum of care in which the patient has the benefit of care over the long term and not just during the acute phases of their illness.
This could prove particularly appealing to patients with chronic conditions who have to manage their illness on a day-to-day basis. They have the advantage of daily support and their care team can fine-tune their treatment in the light of more plentiful and more precise data.
Orange Healthcare is helping the healthcare industry face this major revolution.
We use our expertise in methods of communication and integration to help the implementation of simple, reliable and effective solutions. Our knowledge of the world of healthcare means we can offer products and services that fulfil the requirements of the sector, particularly where the security of healthcare data transmission and hosting is concerned.
Specialists from Orange Consulting are also available to assist those within this sector with input to and the implementation of these innovative projects which sometimes affect their organisations as a whole.
 
Towards an overall approach to the continuum of care
These days, our healthcare system still focuses on managing illness rather than on managing healthin general. Yet, the situation is changing, due to the fact that the patient is becoming a genuine stakeholder in their own health, the current national thinking on setting up pathway medicine and the emergence of what is known as quantified self.
Intelligent scales that register your body mass index, T-shirts that record your heartbeat, socks with temperature and pressure sensors, toothbrushes that analyse your brushing technique, and so it goes on. These are all modern gadgets that could, in the future, be of benefit to the health pathway of each and every one of us.
In the United States, it is now common to see patients taking charts of their sports performance or weight fluctuations when they go to see the doctor. Or doctors who are themselves increasingly willing to recommend devices that help them to make a better diagnosis (nearly half of healthcare professionals would recommend internet sites or applications to their patients).
Is this relevant? Is the data provided relatively reliable? Will we overwhelm our healthcare professionals with a wide variety of different data? Obvious questions are now being asked and there is still a wide gap between the connected medical devices that have been accredited and regulated and those that are still considered gadgets.
However, it is undeniable that by encouraging those that have them to change their behaviour, these tools are already combating sedentary lifestyles and could, therefore, be worthwhile for the purposes of prevention. In some cases, monitoring simple indicators, such as weight, can also contribute to enhanced medical monitoring. In Auvergne, the Cardiauvergne system that is based upon monitoring weight, and also upon nurses uploading clinical symptoms on a weekly basis, has obtained extremely encouraging results by reducing the death rate and number of readmissions to hospital in heart failure patients.
Tweets about it...


Med:
How Hospitals Work
Just over three weeks ago my brother suffered a brain hemorrhage while on vacation with his family in the Dominican Republic. After an emergency medevac and a few weeks in two different hospitals he has continued to get better and very thankfully is expected to make a full recovery.
As a result, Ive been spending a good bit of time in hospitals lately.
What I never realized is how amazing hospitals are as organizations. Its really fascinating. During the entire experience I couldnt help but marvel at all of the different parts of the hospital working together to create their end product: health.
Heres what I learned.
At the core, hospitals are really comprised of two systems working in tandem: Nurses and Doctors.
Nurses:
Each hospital is divided up to floors which are really just blocks of rooms. In the two hospitals where I stayed, there were about 15-25 rooms per floor and one or two patients in each room. At the center of the floor is the nurses station. The nurses station is home base for the nursing staff  thats where all of the patients on the floor are monitored centrally. Thats also where the administrative staff for the floor sits. Each floor has one or two admins who answer the telephone and monitor who is coming and going on the floor. Although security is usually pretty loose, the doors to the floor are locked and need to be unlocked by the admin for anyone to enter or leave.
There are different types of floors throughout the hospital. Each floor is categorized by two factors: the specialty and level of care. The different specialties are, as you expect  cardiology, gastroenterology, maternity, oncology, etc. In terms of level of care, I only really observed three levels (in order of escalating severity): general care, intermediate care, and ICU (intensive care unit).
Depending on the specialty and level of care, there is a specified ratio of nurses to patients. This can be as high as 1:1 or 1:2 for ICU floors (evidently this ratio is mandated in some states), or as low as 1:5 or greater for general floors. This ratio dictates how many patients are assigned to each nurse. This number is important to keep in mind because it represents how much attention each patient will get from the nursing staff and how readily available nurses will be in case something goes wrong.
Organizationally the nursing hierarchy looks like this on each floor:
1) The Charge Nurse: the boss of the nurses. They are the escalation point for nurses on that floor.
2) The RNs or registered nurses. These are the nurses that provide 24-hour care for patients. They work in two 12-hour shifts. They administer meds, monitor vital signs and they are the ones who come running when there is a problem.
3) The nurse technicians. These are the folks who do more of the dirty work in the hospital. They sponge bathe the patients, clean the rooms, help the patients go to the bathroom, and do more of the operational work.
Overall the job of the nursing crew is to keep patients alive and comfortable while they are receiving care at the hospital. They also provide some emotional support and motivation  often writing goals for the day on a whiteboard in the patients room (e.g. get to pain free, walk down the hallway on your own, etc.)
The second major system of the hospital is the Doctors.
Doctors are easy to identify at the hospital because they wear distinctive white coats, they often travel and packs and people get out of the way when they walk down the hallway. They are clearly the top of the social hierarchy in the hospital. However, not all doctors are the same inside the hospital  there are actually lots of different kinds and levels of doctors.
As doctors become more senior at the hospital, they specialize in one area of medicine. For instance, I spent a lot of time with neurologists. Heres what the organizational hierarchy looks like (I personally found this to be one of the most important things to remember):
Attending Doctor: these are the most senior doctors at the hospital. They make most of the decisions about how to handle patients and when to do surgery or other procedures. They are very often the surgeons themselves and spend a lot of time doing surgery (and if its a teaching hospital, teaching surgery).
Fellow: this is the second most senior tier of doctor. These doctors are technically still in the process of their on the job education, but are very experienced. I think by the time they reach the fellow level, doctors have already specialized in a specific field.
Resident: these are the 3rd most senior (second most junior) doctors. They either have not specialized or are just starting to specialize in a specific area of medicine.
Intern: these are the most junior doctors. They have not specialized in any one area of medicine and they rotate through different departments at the hospital. For instance, we once had a sports medicine intern come talk to us even though we were being treated by the neurology Attending.
For complex or serious cases, when it comes to doctors, the Attending and Fellow are really the only ones who actually have real decision making authority. One of the most important lessons I learned during my time in the hospital is to make sure you know whom the information is coming from when you talk to a doctor. Although the Interns and Residents are the most junior doctors, they are also (logically) the most available to patients. Very often we were in a situation where a Resident or Intern was relaying information to us that had been told to them by the Attending. I found that it was important to try to cut down on the game of telephone and talk directly to the Attending whenever possible.
However, one important warning about Attending doctors  who are often surgeons. They are notorious for not really caring about follow up or recovery. Surgeons are the alpha-males or alpha-females of the hospital. They go in, fix you, and then send you on your way so they can fix the next person. When it comes to creating a rehab plan  talk to a Resident who may have more appreciation for some of the softer sides of medicine.
One of the most interesting things is that the nurses and doctors at the hospital work totally independently. For instance, nursing staff works 24/7, while the doctors really tend to work more on a regular work schedule (Monday-Friday). Doctors, especially the more senior ones, can be very hard to find on the weekends.
Another thing that really caught me off guard was the practice of Doctors doing rounds. Rounds are when a bevvy of doctors walk from room to room, spending about 5 minutes with each patient to give them an update on their condition and plan. Rounds are pretty much the only time patients get to talk directly to the doctors (unless there is an emergency) so its a very important time. Also  because it happens so quickly and at an unpredictable time (generally between 7am and 10am) it can be a bit of a scramble to figure out whats going on and what you should ask the doctor. To help with this, I started writing down my questions in advance of the doctors showing up and (figuratively) blocking the door until they gave me all the information I wanted. It took me a few times to get really good at this. The first time the doctors did rounds, I completely missed what was going on and had to wait 24 hours to have another shot at it.
I suppose at the end of this experience Im left thankful that my brother is ok, but I also have a brand new respect for hospitals, nurses, doctors and really anyone who has been through a long term hospital stay. Hospitals can be really scary places, but they are also beautiful, vibrant, living organisms.

Med:
4 Things You Didnt Know About How Hospitals Operate

Most people, who live and work outside of the insular bubble that the American healthcare system has become, perceive the role of a hospital administrator as similar to that of a CEO of a small to medium-sized corporation.
While its true that a corporate CEO and a hospital administrator have some responsibilities in common, the hospital administrator faces a unique set of challenges that most corporate executives cant possibly imagine. If a career in healthcare administration is on your radar, here are a few things you should know about how todays hospitals operate.
The Independent Community Hospital Is A Thing of the Past

Image via Flickr by Kool Cats Photography over 3 Million Views
Just a generation ago, most hospitals were independent entities. The hospital administrator, who typically had a background in medicine, set budget priorities and ensured the facility operated in compliance with a mission statement developed with a board of directors. This executive was responsible for the hospitals overall performance; he or she had the autonomy to change operating policies, procedures, and priorities.
Today, however, the majority of hospitals are under the ownership of large healthcare corporations that operate tens or hundreds of facilities. Most hospital administrators are constrained by procedures and budgets developed at the corporate level and report not to a board of directors, but to another corporate executive, such as a VP, who in turn reports to a CEO, who is ultimately accountable to the board. Todays hospital executives are business administrators, more likely to have a healthcare MBA than a medical degree.
Most Doctors Are Hospital Employees
In the past, patients received care from their own physicians while in the hospital because hospitals had few staff physicians and granted privileges to community doctors who would make rounds on their patients. Today, however, most new physicians work directly for the hospital, and patients get most of their care from these hospitalists. With the coming physician shortage, administrators will need to focus more of their energies working with the Human Resources department to recruit and retain qualified staff.
Nurses Are Increasingly Unionized
As hospitals move from the community model to the corporate model, more nurses are turning to unions to protect their interests. Administrators are no longer able to offer employment on their own terms; all aspects of employment are negotiated and covered by a collective bargaining agreement. This limits the options an administrator has to respond quickly to changes in budgets or patient care needs, adding another layer of complexity to this role.
Hospitals Cannot Set Their Own Fees
Most patients admitted to a hospital have coverage from either public or private health insurance; very few pay cash for their services. In the case of public insurance, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the government tells the hospital what they will pay for various services regardless of what the hospital charges. Hospitals also negotiate a steeply discounted rate with private insurance companies. This means that hospital administrators cannot respond to budgetary shortfalls by raising prices the way other businesses can.
Todays hospital executives are best prepared for their chosen career path by earning a healthcare administration degree focused on the business aspects of operating a healthcare facility.

MED:
How Hospitals Work Part 2: The Doctors You See

________________________________________
By Dr. Eric Bricker
________________________________________
Compass Navigating Healthcare Blog | Diseases | Doctors | Employee Benefits | Health Navigation | Healthcare Quality | Hospitals

 
In a continuation of my post from Friday on the difference between outpatient and inpatient services, observation stays and surgical and non-surgical admits
Today we will discuss how doctors see patients in the hospital.
The process of seeing patients in a hospital is called rounding.  The term dates back to the early 1900s and was believed to have been started at the hospital where I trained  Johns Hopkins.
Doctors typically round on patients in the morningoften very early.  It is reasonable to expect doctors to start rounding at 6 AM  7 AM.  This is important because if you have a family member in the hospital and you want to talk to the doctor in person, you will need to be there early in the morning when the doctor is rounding.  If you cannot be in the hospital at that time, it is highly unlikely that the doctors will come back to the room to talk to you.  However, you may be able to have the nurse page the doctor so you can talk to him or her on the phone.
During rounding the doctor performs an assessment:  performing an exam, reviewing vital signs, lab/test results and nurses/other doctors notes.  Then the doctor determines the plan for the day: a change in medication, additional testing, evaluations by physical therapy and occupational therapy, a possible procedure, discharge or transfer to a higher level of care because you have become more ill.
Floors in hospitals are roughly divided into 3 levels of care:
	The regular Floor (least sick)
	Step-Down (sicker, Step-Down is a step down from the ICU, hence its name)
	Intensive Care Unit (sickest, aka ICU)
There are several things that are different on each of these levels, but the biggest thing that changes is the ratio of patients to nurse.
On the regular floor, the ratio is typically 4-5:1 during the day and up to 8:1 at night.
On Step-Down, the ratio is typically 3-4:1 during the day and a little higher at night.
In the ICU, the ratio is typically 1-2:1 both day and night.
Types of Doctors in the Hospital
	Hospitalists: It has become almost standard for a non-surgical patient in the hospital to be seen daily by a hospitalist.  A hospitalist is typically a general internist who only practices in the hospital or has dedicated a block of time (say 1 month, 4x per year for a total of 4 months) to only practicing in the hospital.  If a patient has a primary care physician (PCP) in the community, it is likely that the PCP will NOT see them in the hospital.  A reason hospitalists now exist is because inpatient care has become very busy  lots of tests/procedures/etc and there needs to be a dedicated physician for each patient to coordinate/dictate all that care.  Another reason hospitalists exist is because it is very difficult/inefficient for a doctor who works in an office to also see patients in the hospital.  Hospitalists are constantly paged and interrupted and if the office doctor had this many interruptions, they could never finish seeing the 20+ patients per day that they need to see in their clinic.
	Specialists:  In addition to a hospitalist, often a specialist (or multiple specialists) will see a patient for their particular condition.  For example, if a patient is having breathing problems, the patient will also be seen by a pulmonologist.  If the patient is having kidney problems, a nephrologist will also see the patient.  If the patient has a severe infection, the patient will also be seen by an infectious disease physician.
	Surgeons:  Surgeons typically take care of their own patients and do not have a hospitalist or other specialist see their patients.  Patients are admitted, have their surgery and are discharged.  Examples of surgeons include: general surgeons, urologists, orthopedists, etc.  Hospitalists and Specialists will see surgical patients if there is a complication with the surgery or if the patient does not do well after surgery for some reason.  An example may be, as a result of IV fluid a patient received during surgery, the patients blood pressure may be too high afterwards.  In this case, the surgeon may call in a hospitalist on consult to get the patients blood pressure under better control.
It is VERY COMMON for miscommunication to occur among the hospitalist, specialists, surgeons, etc.  It should be ASSUMED that miscommunication is going to occur until proven otherwise.
What are the implications of this miscommunication?
If a patient is unconscious or not fully coherent because of their illness, it is crucial that a friend or family member talk to each of the doctors directly on a daily basis.  Often this requires the friend or family member sitting in the patients room the entire day.  If the friend or family member cannot do that, then the nurse can be asked to put a note on the charge to have the doctor call the friend or family member after they have seen the patient to tell them the assessment and plan.
Believe it or not, frequently the doctors who see the same patient never talk to each other.  All they do is leave notes in the chart and read each others notes.  The problem with this lack of direct communication is that the notes are often unclear or the doctor reading them may have additional clarifying questions.  There is really only one true central Hub of communication in a hospital and that is the patient themselves OR their friend/family member.
There are some hospital systems that processes and procedures in place to facilitate better coordination and communication among physicians, but in my opinion (which could be wrong), these hospitals are likely the exception rather than the rule.


MED:
Hospitals Can Work Better
	Ron Ashkenas
JANUARY 11, 2011
	 SAVE
 
	 SHARE
 
	COMMENT
 
	 TEXT SIZE
 
	 PRINT
 
	8.95 BUY COPIES
RECOMMENDED
	
Process Improvement in Stanford Hospital's Operating Room
TECHNOLOGY & OPERATIONSCASE
8.95 ADD TO CART
If youve ever spent time in a hospital  either as a patient, staff member, or visitor  then you know that institutional health care is extremely complicated by nature. Technology aside, reflect on all the people who need to be orchestrated to care for a single patient: Personal primary physician, departmental attending physician, multiple residents and interns, medical students, several shifts of nurses, social workers, dietitians, transport staff, administrative staff, maintenance workers, pharmacists, radiologists, technicians, laboratory staff, special service providers (e.g., occupational therapy or rehab), and many more. Of course at any given time each of these professionals is dealing with multiple patients and dozens of special requests. So, unlike a factory where work flows can be standardized, each patient in a hospital is unique and requires special treatment.
Given this complexity, its a minor miracle that hospitals function as well as they do, and a tribute to the dedication of administrative and professional staff. And yet recent trends are proving that their best just isnt good enough. According to a study by the think tank Resources for the Future, over 48,000 people in the United States die each year from hospital caused infections. Even more disturbing, a Hearst media study suggests that preventable medical errors (including infections) lead to at least 200,000 deaths per year, double the estimates from several years ago. Patient satisfaction with hospital care is also declining, based on the American Customer Satisfaction Index. And amidst this perfect storm of increasing doctor error and decreasing patient satisfaction, hospitals are under intense pressure to reduce costs due to health care reform, reimbursement restrictions, and economic pressures. Its a tough time to be running a hospital.
To combat these pressing issues, a number of hospitals across the United States are trying new approaches to managing their complexity  and with their progress a new paradigm for hospital management may be taking shape. While it is too early to define this paradigm completely, some of its key elements are starting to emerge. These include:
	Vastly improved information systems: While electronic medical records are getting most of the media attention, the bigger breakthrough will be wireless and seamless information management of all facets of the hospital  medication, staff utilization and location, equipment availability, and more. Companies such as Cerner, GE, McKesson, Cisco, and others are devoting considerable resources to creating this kind of game-changing capacity.
	Outcome-based goals and incentives: Government reimbursement rules have changed so that hospitals cannot charge for readmissions caused by their own errors. This shift is forcing hospitals to focus more on measurable outcomes rather than just filling beds. Soon this type of information will be more widely available, which will allow patients to choose institutions based on performance, rather than just location. This will create market forces for improvements that dont fully exist today.
	Disciplined process management: While many aspects of hospital care are not repeatable, many processes are indeed subject to well-established disciplines such as Six Sigma and reengineering. Hospitals such as North Shore-LIJ Health System in the New York area and Stanford University Hospital in California have built internal process improvement groups that have found many such opportunities  such as patient transport, operating room turnover, and admissions.
	Team-based training: Most training for the health care professions aims to impart scientific knowledge and technical skills, and focuses on preparing the individual care-giver. However a large portion of hospital work is done in teams  and the more that professionals learn how to function effectively in teams, the better the care. North Shore-LIJ for example has created simulation centers that teach teams how to work together in intensive medical situations, such as surgery, birthing, and other emergencies.
Hospitals of course will never be simple. But they can  and must  improve their performance. Hopefully the approaches described here (and others) will coalesce into a more effective way of delivering institutionally-based health care. Its something we all have a stake in.
Do you have other thoughts or experiences about how hospitals can be managed more effectively?

MED:
List of management functions
Key management functions for health service delivery include the following:
A.	Policy and Planning
o	Local policy development (adjusting national policies to be applicable to the district, and/or developing additional local policies)
o	Strategic (medium-term) planning & setting priorities for the district
o	Financial forecasting for the district
o	District operational (annual or shorter period) planning
	Financial Planning and Management
o	Budget development - capital or investment, for the district
o	Budget development - recurrent or operational, for the district
o	Budget allocation to services and activities within the district
o	Publication of district annual health plan and budget for public information
o	Monitoring district health expenditure against budget
o	Adjustment between budget lines during the year
o	Setting fees for health services and drugs in the district (if applicable)
o	Organising community health insurance in the district
o	Collection of fees and/or insurance premiums in the district
o	Setting criteria for subsidies or exemption from fees in the district
o	Decisions on use of health income to the district
o	Audit of district health finances and functions
	Human Resources Planning and Management
o	Deciding the number and mix of staff required for health facilities and services in the district
o	Long-term health workforce planning for the district
o	Hiring and firing staff in the district
o	Setting staff salaries and allowances for the district
o	Deployment of staff to clinical, outreach and public health services and activities within the district
o	Development of health staff job descriptions for the district
o	Performance assessment of health staff in the district
o	Training needs assessment for health staff in the district
o	In-service education for health staff in the district
o	Career planning for health staff in the district
o	Setting and awarding district health staff incentives - financial
o	Setting and awarding district health staff incentives - non-financial
D.	Governance and Accountability
o	Establishment of health services governance or management structures in the district
o	Deciding on inclusion of community members in district health management structures
o	Interaction with the community - seeking information on and responding to community health needs
o	Ensuring the community has information on costs of health services, delivery options and available resources
o	Reporting local health priorities to national authorities
o	Intersectoral collaboration in the district
o	Negotiating donor support to health services in the district
o	Defining the role of the private sector in district health
o	Monitoring donor activity in health in the district
o	Enforcing health legislation, regulation and standards in the district
o	Assessment of constraints to district health performance
E.	Planning and Management of Service Provision
o	Development of essential packages of health services for the district
o	Development of essential list of drugs for the district
o	Development of clinical & public health protocols for the district
o	Development of performance standards for the district
o	Establishment of mechanisms for referral and control of access to services in the district
o	Procurement of drugs for the district
o	Procurement of equipment for the district
o	Health facility development in the district
o	Health facility maintenance in the district
o	Equipment and vehicle maintenance in the district
o	Contracting health services in the district
o	Undertaking research on operational or clinical topics of concern to the district
o	Dissemination of relevant health research and best practices in the district
F.	Managing performance through information
o	Maintaining coverage, integrity, timeliness and quality of routing information on health services provision
o	Monitoring of performance standards in the district
o	Monitoring patient throughput and statistics in the district
o	Monitoring health service utilization by poor and vulnerable groups in the district
o	Monitoring adverse patient events in the district
o	Monitoring patient satisfaction in the district
o	Monitoring population health indicators in the district
o	Monitoring referrals to and from services in the district
o	Monitoring drug use and availability in the district
o	Monitoring drug quality in the district
o	Surveillance for rapid response to disease outbreak
o	Aggregation of data from facilities and feedback to facilities
o	Assessment of effective coverage of services
o	Reporting on district health performance to national government
o	Reporting on district health performance to stakeholders


MED:
The role of hospital managers in quality and patient safety: a systematic review
 
1.	Anam Parand1, 
2.	Sue Dopson2, 
3.	Anna Renz1, 
4.	Charles Vincent3
Author affiliations
Abstract
Objectives To review the empirical literature to identify the activities, time spent and engagement of hospital managers in quality of care.
Design A systematic review of the literature.
Methods A search was carried out on the databases MEDLINE, PSYCHINFO, EMBASE, HMIC. The search strategy covered three facets: management, quality of care and the hospital setting comprising medical subject headings and key terms. Reviewers screened 15 447 titles/abstracts and 423 full texts were checked against inclusion criteria. Data extraction and quality assessment were performed on 19 included articles.
Results The majority of studies were set in the USA and investigated Board/senior level management. The most common research designs were interviews and surveys on the perceptions of managerial quality and safety practices. Managerial activities comprised strategy, culture and data-centred activities, such as driving improvement culture and promotion of quality, strategy/goal setting and providing feedback. Significant positive associations with quality included compensation attached to quality, using quality improvement measures and having a Board quality committee. However, there is an inconsistency and inadequate employment of these conditions and actions across the sample hospitals.
Conclusions There is some evidence that managers time spent and work can influence quality and safety clinical outcomes, processes and performance. However, there is a dearth of empirical studies, further weakened by a lack of objective outcome measures and little examination of actual actions undertaken. We present a model to summarise the conditions and activities that affect quality performance.
This is an Open Access article distributed in accordance with the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 4.0) license, which permits others to distribute, remix, adapt and build upon this work, for commercial use, provided the original work is properly cited. See: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2014-005055
Statistics from Altmetric.com

See more details
Blogged by 1
Tweeted by 85
On 2 Facebook pages
Mentioned in 2 Google+ posts
166 readers on Mendeley
	Review history and Supplementary material
	Request Permissions
Strengths and limitations of this study
	This is the first systematic review of the literature that has considered the evidence on Boards and managers time spent, engagement and work within the context of quality and safety. This review adds to the widely anecdotal and commentary pieces that speculate on what managers should be doing by presenting what they are actually doing.
	The review reveals conditions and actions conducive to good quality management and offers a model to transparently present these to managers considering their own part in quality and safety.
	The search for this review has screened a vast amount of the literature (over 15 000 articles) across a number of databases.
	The small number of included studies and their varied study aims, design and population samples make generalisations difficult. With more literature on this topic, distinctions could be made between job positions.
	The quality assessment scores are subjective and may not take into consideration factors beyond the quality assessment scale used.
Introduction
Managers in healthcare have a legal and moral obligation to ensure a high quality of patient care and to strive to improve care. These managers are in a prime position to mandate policy, systems, procedures and organisational climates. Accordingly, many have argued that it is evident that healthcare managers possess an important and obvious role in quality of care and patient safety and that it is one of the highest priorities of healthcare managers.13 In line with this, there have been calls for Boards to take responsibility for quality and safety outcomes.4 ,5 One article warned hospital leaders of the dangers of following in the path of bankers falling into recession, constrained by their lack of risk awareness and reluctance to take responsibility.6 To add to the momentum are some high profile publicity of hospital management failures affecting quality and safety, eliciting strong instruction for managerial leadership for quality at the national level in some countries.7 ,8
Beyond healthcare, there is clear evidence of managerial impact on workplace safety.912 Within the literature on healthcare, there are non-empirical articles providing propositions and descriptions on managerial attitudes and efforts to improve safety and quality. This literature, made up of opinion articles, editorials and single participant experiences, present an array of insightful suggestions and recommendations for actions that hospital managers should take to improve the quality of patient care delivery in their organisation.1317 However, researchers have indicated that there is a limited evidence base on this topic.1821 Others highlight the literature focus on the difficulties of the managers role and the negative results of poor leadership on quality improvement (QI) rather than considering actions that managers presently undertake on quality and safety.22 ,23 Consequently, little is known about what healthcare managers are doing in practice to ensure and improve quality of care and patient safety, how much time they spend on this, and what research-based guidance is available for managers in order for them to decide on appropriate areas to become involved. Due perhaps to the broad nature of the topic, scientific studies exploring these acts and their impact are likely to be a methodological challenge, although a systematic review of the evidence on this subject is notably absent. This present systematic literature review aims to identify empirical studies pertaining to the role of hospital managers in quality of care and patient safety. We define role to comprise of managerial activities, time spent and active engagement in quality and safety and its improvement. While the primary research question is on the managers role, we take into consideration the contextual factors surrounding this role and its impact or importance as highlighted by the included studies. Our overarching question is What is the role of hospital managers in quality and safety and its improvement? The specific review research questions are as follows:
	How much time is spent by hospital managers on quality and safety and its improvement?
	What are the managerial activities that relate to quality and safety and its improvement?
	How are managers engaged in quality and safety and its improvement?
	What impact do managers have on quality and safety and its improvement?
	How do contextual factors influence the managers role and impact on quality and safety and its improvement?
Methods
Concepts and definitions
Quality of care and patient safety were defined on the basis of widely accepted definitions from the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Patient Safety Network (AHRQ PSN). IOM define quality in healthcare as possessing the following dimensions: safe, effective, patient-centred, timely, efficient and equitable.4 They define patient safety simply as the prevention of harm to patients,24 and AHRQ define it as freedom from accidental or preventable injuries produced by medical care.25 Literature was searched for all key terms associated with quality and patient safety to produce an all-encompassing approach. A manager was defined as an employee who has subordinates, oversees staff, is responsible for staff recruitment and training, and holds budgetary accountabilities. Therefore, all levels of managers including Boards of managers were included in this review with the exception of clinical frontline employees, e.g. doctors or nurses, who may have taken on further managerial responsibilities alongside their work but do not have a primary official role as a manager. Those who have specifically taken on a role for quality of care, e.g. the modern matron, were also excluded. Distinction between senior, middle and frontline management was as follows: senior management holds trust-wide responsibilities26; middle managers are in the middle of the organisational hierarchy chart and have one or more managers reporting to them27; frontline managers are defined as managers at the first level of the organisational hierarchy chart who have frontline employees reporting to them. Board managers include all members of the Board. Although there are overlaps between senior managers and Boards (e.g. chief executive officers (CEOs) may sit on hospital Boards), we aim to present senior and Board level managers separately due to the differences in their responsibilities and position. Only managers who would manage within or govern hospitals were included, with the exclusion of settings that solely served mental health or that comprised solely of non-acute care community services (in order to keep the sample more homogenous). The definition of role focused on actual engagement, time spent and activities that do or did occur rather than those recommended that should or could occur.
Search strategy
Literature was reviewed between 1 January 1983 and 1 November 2010. Eligible articles were those that described or tested managerial roles pertaining to quality and safety in the hospital setting. Part of the search strategy was based on guidance by Tanon et al.28 EMBASE, MEDLINE, Health Management Information Consortium (HMIC) and PSYCHINFO databases were searched. The search strategy involved three facets (management, quality and hospital setting) and five steps. A facet (i.e. a conceptual grouping of related search terms) for role was not included in the search strategy, as it would have significantly reduced the sensitivity of the search.
Multiple iterations and combinations of all search terms were tested to achieve the best level of specificity and sensitivity. In addition to the key terms, Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) terms were used, which were exploded to include all MeSH subheadings. All databases required slightly different MeSH terms (named Emtree in EMBASE), therefore four variations of the search strategies were used (see online supplementary appendix 1 for the search strategies). Additional limits placed on the search strategy restricted study participants to human and the language to English. The search strategy identified 15 447 articles after duplicates had been removed.
Screening
Three reviewers (AP, AR and Dina Grishin) independently screened the titles and abstracts of the articles for studies that fit the inclusion criteria. One reviewer (AP) screened all 15 447 articles, while two additional reviewers screened 30% of the total sample retrieved from the search strategy: AR screened 20% and DG screened 10%. On testing inter-rater reliability, Cohens ? correlations showed low agreement between AR and AP (?=0.157, p<0.01) and between DG and AP (?=0.137, p<0.00).29 However, there was a high percentage of agreement between raters (95% and 89%, respectively), which reveals a good inter-rater reliability.30 ,31Discrepancies were resolved by discussion and consensus. The main inclusion criteria were that: the setting was hospitals; the population sample reported on was managers; the context was quality and safety; the aim was to identify the managerial activities/time/engagement in quality and safety. The full inclusion/exclusion criteria and screening tool can be accessed in the online supplementary appendices 23. Figure 1 presents the numbers of articles included and excluded at each stage of the review process.

Figure 1
Review stages based on PRISMA flow diagram.33
Four hundred and twenty-three articles remained for full text screening. One reviewer (AP) screened all articles and a second reviewer (AR) reviewed 7% of these. A moderate agreement inter-rater reliability score was calculated (?=0.615, p<0.001) with 73% agreement. The primary reoccurring difference in agreement was regarding whether the article pertained to quality of care, owing to the broad nature of the definition. Each article was discussed individually until a consensus was reached on whether to include or exclude. Hand searching and cross-referencing were carried out in case articles were missed by the search strategy or from restriction of databases. One additional article was identified from hand searching,32 totalling 19 articles included in the systematic review (figure 1).
Data extraction and methodological quality
The characteristics and summary findings of the 19 included studies are presented in table 1. This table is a simplified version of a standardised template that was used to ensure consistency in data extracted from each article. Each study was assessed using a quality appraisal tool developed by Kmet et al,34 which comprised of two checklists (qualitative and quantitative). Random included articles (32%) were scored by Ana Wheelock for scoring consistency. All articles were scored on up to 24 questions with a score between 0 and 2; table 2 shows an example definition of what constitutes Yes (2), Partial (1) and No (0) rating criteria. The total percentage scores for each study are presented in table 1. All studies were included regardless of their quality scores. Some cumulative evidence bias may results from two larger data sets split into more than one study each.3538 Through a narrative synthesis, we aimed to maintain the original meanings, interpretations and raw data offered by the articles.39
 
Results
This section provides an overview description of the reviewed studies and their key findings. The findings are considered under four main headings: managerial time spent on quality and safety; managerial quality and safety activities; managerial impact on quality and safety; and contextual factors related to managers quality and safety role. The section ends with a proposed model to summarise the review findings.
Description of the studies
From the 19 included studies, the majority were carried out and set in the USA (14 studies) and investigated senior management and/or Boards (13 studies). Of these, 3 focused on senior managers alone (e.g. chief nursing officers), 9 concentrated on Board managers and 1 included a mixture of managerial levels. Only 3 investigated middle managers and 3 examined frontline staff (e.g. clinical directorate managers and unit nurse managers). The settings of the study were mostly trust or hospital-wide; a few articles were set in specific settings or contexts: elderly care,40 evidence-based medicine,41 staff productivity,42 clinical risk management43 and hospital-acquired infection prevention.44 Two studies involved specific interventions,45 ,46 and 7 studies concentrated specifically on QI rather than quality and safety oversight or routine.35 ,40 ,4549 There were a mixture of 6 qualitative designs (interviews or focus groups); 8 quantitative survey designs and 5 mix-methods designs. All but one study employed a cross-sectional design.46 The primary outcome measure used in most studies was perceptions of managerial quality and safety practices. All reported participant perceptions and a majority presented self-reports, i.e. either a mixture of self-reports and peer reports, or self-reports alone.41 ,43 ,45 ,46 Several studies asked participants about their own and/or other managers involvement with regard to their specific QI intervention or quality/safety issue.40 ,41 ,4447 With some variations, the most common research design was to interview or survey senior manager/Board members (particularly Board chairs, presidents and CEOs) perceptions on the Board/senior managers functions, practices, priorities, agenda, time spent, engagement, challenges/issues, drivers and literacy (e.g. familiarity of key reports) on quality and safety.3538 ,4851 Five of these studies included objective process/outcome measures, such as adjusted mortality rates.35 ,37 ,38 ,49 ,50 No other studies included clinical outcome measures.
The quality assessment scores ranged between 50% and 100%; one study scored (what we consider to be) very low (i.e. <55%), eight studies scored highly (i.e. >75%), two other articles scored highly on one out of two of their studies (quantitative/qualitative) and the remaining eight scored a moderate rating in-between. Almost half of the articles did not adequately describe their qualitative studies. Specifically, 8 failed to fully describe their qualitative data collection methods, often not mentioning a standardised topic guide, what questions were asked of participants, or no mention of consent and confidentiality assurances. In 7 studies there was no or vague qualitative data analysis description, including omitting the type of qualitative analysis used. Six of the studies showed no or poor use of verification procedures to establish credibility and 9 reported no or poor reflexivity. Positively, all study designs were evident, the context of studies were clear and the authors showed a connection to a wider body of knowledge.
Similarly to the qualitative studies, 7 quantitative studies did not fully describe, justify or use appropriate analysis methods. However, compared with the qualitative studies, the quantitative studies suffered more from sampling issues. Three studies had particularly small samples (e.g. n=35) and one had an especially low response rate of 15%. Participant characteristics were insufficiently described in 5 studies; in one case the authors did not state the number of hospitals included in data analysis. Several studies had obtained ordinal data but only presented percentages, and only one study reported to appropriately controlled for confounding variables. Across all articles, all but 3 studies reported clear objectives and asserted conclusions clearly supported by the data.
Managerial time spent on quality and safety
The studies on Board level managers highlight an inadequate prioritisation of quality and patient safety on the Board agenda and subsequent time spent at Board meetings. Not all hospitals consistently have quality on their Board agenda, e.g. CEOs and chairpersons across 30 organisations reported that approximately a third of all Board meetings had quality on their agenda,35 and necessary quality items were not consistently and sometimes never addressed.36 In all studies examining time spent on quality and safety by the Board, less than half of the total time was spent on quality and safety,32 ,37 ,38 ,4851 with a majority of Boards spending 25% or less on quality.32 ,38 ,45 ,4951 Findings imply that this may be too low to have a positive influence on quality and safety, as higher quality performance was demonstrated by Boards that spent above 20%/25% on quality.49 ,50 Board members recognised that the usual time spent is insufficient.48 However, few reported financial goals as more important than quality and safety goals,32 and health system Boards only spent slightly more time on financial issues than quality.51 Frontline managers also placed less importance and time on QI,42 identified as the least discussed topic by clinical managers.52
Managerial quality and safety activities
A broad range of quality-related activities were identified to be undertaken by managers. These are presented by the following three groupings: strategy-centred; data-centred and culture-centred.
Strategy-centred
Board priority setting and planning strategies aligned with quality and safety goals were identified as Board managerial actions carried out in several studies. High percentages (over 80% in two studies) of Boards had formally established strategic goals for quality with specific targets and aimed to create a quality plan integral to their broader strategic agenda.32 ,37 Contrary findings however suggest that the Board rarely set the agenda for the discussion on quality,37 did not provide the ideas for their strategies32 and were largely uninvolved in strategic planning for QI.48 In the latter case, the non-clinical Board managers felt that they held passive roles in quality decisions. This is important considering evidence that connects the activity of setting the hospital quality agenda with better performance in process of care and mortality.38 Additionally, Boards that established goals in four areas of quality and publicly disseminated strategic goals and reported quality information were linked to high hospital performance.35 ,38 ,50
Culture-centred
Activities aimed at enhancing patient safety/QI culture emerged from several studies across organisational tiers.44 ,47 ,48 ,53 Board and senior management's activities included encouraging an organisational culture of QI on norms regarding interdepartmental/multidisciplinary collaboration and advocating QI efforts to clinicians and fellow senior managers, providing powerful messages of safety commitment and influencing the organisation's patient safety mission.47 ,53 Managers at differing levels focused on cultivating a culture of clinical excellence and articulating the organisational culture to staff.44 Factors to motivate/engage middle and senior management in QI included senior management commitment, provision of resources and managerial role accountability.40 ,46 Findings revealed connections between senior management and Board priorities and values with hospital performance and on middle management quality-related activities. Ensuring capacity for high-quality standards also appears within the remit of management, as physician credentialing was identified as a Board managers responsibility in more than one study.38 ,48 From this review it is unclear to what degree Board involvement in the credentialing process has a significant impact on quality.38 ,41
Data-centred
Information on quality and safety is continually supplied to the Board.51 At all levels of management, activities around quality and safety data or information were recognised in 6 studies.35 ,38 ,43 ,45 ,47 ,53 Activities included collecting and collating information,43reviewing quality information,35 ,38 ,53 using measures such as incident reports and infection rates to forge changes,53 using patient satisfaction surveys,35 taking corrective action based on adverse incidents or trends emphasised at Board meetings38 and providing feedback.43 ,47 The studies do not specify the changes made based on the data-related activities by senior managers; one study identified that frontline managers predominantly used data from an incident reporting tool to change policy/practice and training/education and communication between care providers.45 However, overseeing data generally was found to be beneficial, as hospitals that carried out performance monitoring activities had significantly higher scores in process of care and lower mortality rates than hospitals that did not.38
Managerial impact on quality and safety outcomes
We have considered the associations found between specific managerial involvement and its affect on quality and safety. Here, we summarise the impact and importance of their general role. Of the articles that looked at either outcomes of management involvement in quality or at its perceived importance, 6 articles suggested that their role was beneficial to quality and safety performance.32 ,35 ,38 ,40 ,49 ,53 Senior management support and engagement was identified as one of the primary factors associated with good hospital-wide quality outcomes and QI programme success.35 ,38 ,40 ,49 Conversely, 6 articles suggest that managers involvement (from the Board, middle and frontline) has little, no or a negative influence on quality and safety.35 ,38 ,41 ,42,44 ,49 Practices that showed no significant association with quality measures included Board's participation in physician credentialing.35 ,38 Another noted that if other champion leaders are present, management leadership was not deemed necessary.44 Two articles identified a negative or inhibitory effect on evidence-based practices and staff productivity from frontline and middle managers.41 ,42
Contextual factors related to managers quality and safety role
Most of the articles focused on issues that influenced the managers role or their impact, as opposed to discussing the role of the managers. These provide an insight in to the types of conditions in which a manager can best undertake their role to affect quality and safety. Unfortunately it appears that many of these conditions are not in place.
Two studies found that a Board quality committee is a positive variable in quality performance, but that fewer than 60% had them.38 ,50 Similarly, compensation and performance evaluation linked to executive quality performance was identified in 4 articles 35 ,37 ,38 ,49 and associated with better quality performance indicators,38 ,49 but quality measures were insufficiently included in CEOs performance evaluation.35 ,37 The use of the right measures to drive QI was raised in relation to Board managerial engagement in quality 35 and to impact on patient care improvement,51 yet almost half of this sample did not formally adopt system-wide measures and standards for quality. To aid them in these tasks, evidence indicates the common use of QI measure tools, such as a dashboard or scorecard,37 ,49 ,50 with promising associations between dashboard use and quality outcomes.38 ,50
Other factors linked to quality outcomes include managementstaff relationship/high interactions between the Board and medical staff when setting quality strategy,49 and managerial expertise. Although a connection between knowledge and quality outcomes was not found,38 high performing hospitals have shown higher self-perceived ability to influence care, expertise at the Board and participation in training programmes that have a quality component.50 Disappointingly, there is a low level of CEO knowledge on quality and safety reports,35 possibly little Boardroom awareness on salient nursing quality issues,36 and little practice identified to improve quality literacy for the Board.32 ,37 There is however promise for new managers through relevant training at induction and by recruitment of those with relevant expertise.32
The quality management IPO model
The input process output (IPO) model is a conceptual framework that helps to structure the review findings in a useful way (see figure 2).54 ,55 This literature may be conceptualised by considering what factors contribute (input) to managerial activities (process) that impact on quality and safety (output). The three factors are inter-related and interchangeable, presented by the cyclical interconnecting diagram. This diagram enables a clearer mental picture of what a manager should consider for their role in quality and safety. Specifically, the input factors suggest certain organisational factors that should be put in place alongside individual factors to prepare for such a role (e.g. standardised quality measures, motivation, education and expertise, and a good relationship with clinicians). The processes present the strategy, culture and data-centred areas where managers (according to the literature) are and/or should be involved (e.g. driving improvement culture, goal setting and providing feedback on corrective actions for adverse events). The outputs identify managerial influences that are positive, negative or have little or no established association with quality performance (e.g. positive outcomes of care, achieving objectives and engaging others in quality of care). This helps to identify areas where it is possible to make an impact through the processes mentioned. With further empirical studies on this topic, this model could be strengthened to become a more robust set of evidence-based criteria and outcomes.

Figure 2
The quality management IPO model (IPO, input process output; QI, quality improvement).
Discussion
Our review examined the role of managers in maintaining and promoting safe, quality care. The existing studies detail the time spent, activities and engagement of hospital managers and Boards, and suggest that these can positively influence quality and safety performance. They further reveal that such involvement is often absent, as are certain conditions that may help them in their work.
Evidence from the review promotes hospitals to have a Board quality committee, with a specific item on quality at the Board meeting, a quality performance measurement report and a dashboard with national quality and safety benchmarks along with standardised quality and safety measures. Outside of the Boardroom, the implications are for senior managers to build a good infrastructure for staffmanager interactions on quality strategies and attach compensation and performance evaluation to quality and safety achievements. For QI programmes, managers should keep in mind its consistency with the hospitals mission and provide commitment, resources, education and role accountability. Literature elsewhere supports much of these findings, such as the use of quality measurement tools21 ,56 better quality-associated compensation, a separate quality committee,16 ,57 and has also emphasised poor managerclinician relationships as damaging to patients and QI.58 ,59
Some of the variables that were shown to be associated with good quality performance, such as having a Board committee, compensation/performance and adoption of system-wide measures, were lacking within the study hospitals. There are also indications of the need to develop Board and senior managerial knowledge and training on quality and safety. Furthermore, this review indicates that many managers do not spend sufficient time on quality and safety. The included studies suggest time spent by the Board should exceed 2025%, yet the findings expose that certain Boards devote less time than this. Inadequacies of time allocated to quality at the Board meeting hold concerning implications for quality. If little time is taken to consider quality of care matters at the highest level, an inference is that less attention will be paid to prevention and improvement of quality within the hospital. While the position that the item appears on the agenda is deemed of high importance, it is unimportant if the duration on this item is overly brief. In this vein, the inadequate time on quality spent by some may reflect their prioritisation on quality in relation to other matters discussed at the meetings or the value perceived to be gained from discussing it further. It might instead however be indicative of the difficulties in measuring time spent on quality by management. Some of these studies provide us not necessarily with Board managers time on quality and safety but their time spent on this at Board meetings. The two may not equate and time spent on quality may not necessarily be well spent.36 The emerging inference that managers greatly prioritise other work over quality and safety is not explicit, with further research required to identify what time is actually devoted and required from managers inside and outside of the Boardroom. Perhaps encouragingly, the more recent studies present more time spent on quality and safety than the earlier studies. Yet even the most recent empirical studies not included in our review conclude that much improvement is required.60
This review presents a wide range of managerial activities, such as public reporting of quality strategies and driving an improvement culture. It further highlights the activities that appear to affect quality performance. Priorities for Boards/managers are to engage in quality, establish goals and strategy to improve care, and get involved in setting the quality agenda, support and promote a safety and QI culture, cultivate leaders, manage resisters, plan ahead and procure organisational resources for quality. Again, much of the findings support the assertions made in the non-empirical literature. Above all, involvement through action, engagement and commitment has been suggested to positively affect quality and safety.61 While researchers have stressed the limited empirical evidence showing conclusive connection between management commitment and quality,21 some supporting evidence however can be unearthed in research that concentrates on organisational factors related to changes made to improve quality and safety in healthcare.6264 In addition to this evidence, a few studies have specifically investigated the impact that hospital managers have on quality and safety (rather than examination of their role). These studies have shown senior managerial leadership to be associated with a higher degree of QI implementation,65 promotion of clinical involvement,66 ,67 safety climate attitudes68 and increased Board leadership for quality.57 A clear case for the positive influence of management involvement with quality is emerging both from the findings of our review and related literature.
There is a dearth of empirical research on the role of hospital managers in quality of care and patient safety and QI. This evidence is further weakened by the largely descriptive nature of many of the studies. They mostly lack theoretical underpinnings and appropriate objective measures. Very few studies reported objective clinical quality outcome measures that better show the influence of managerial actions. Moreover, the content of many of the articles was dominated by the contextual issues surrounding managers roles, rather than actual manager practices. Some of the outlined managerial actions would further benefit from more detail, e.g. the literature fails to present changes made based on the data-related activities at the Board or senior management level. Only one study clearly demonstrated that senior management and Board priorities can impact on middle management quality-related activities and engagement. Considering the likely influence that seniors have on their managers, examination of the interactions between the different roles held (e.g. Boards setting policies on quality and middle managers implementing them) would improve our understanding of how these differences reflect in their time spent and actions undertaken. Supplementary work could also resolve contradictions that were found within the review, clarifying for example, the positive impact of managerial expertise versus knowledge on quality and who sets the Board agenda for the discussion on quality. Research on this area is particularly required to examine middle and frontline managers, to take into consideration non-managers perceptions, and to assess senior managers time and tasks outside of the Boardroom. Future studies would benefit from better experimental controls, ideally with more than one time point, verifications and reflections on qualitative work, robust statistical analysis, appropriate study controls, consideration of confounding variables, and transparent reporting of population samples, methodologies, and analyses used. Box 1 presents the key messages from this review.


MED:
Functions of Hospital Management Information System
Managing complex administrative and clinical processes in a hospital frees the staff to give more time on looking after patients in hospital and extending the reach of services from in-patient to out-patient, to long term care and even home care. Access to the information and the automation of critical tasks and work-flow is key to not only making this task but work efficiently.
 
Our Electra hospital management information system, a result of constant innovation, goes beyond hospital automation to enable resource management and information management, transformation in patient care, leading to better patient outcomes and healthier operations.
Functions of HMIS:
	Effective utilization of hospital facilities and improves inventory control
	Makes data collected available for research purposes
	Generates MIS reports, which help the management in making policy decisions.
	Provides information required to support patient care
	Maintains records necessary for statutory requirements
	Data security, integrity and accessibility
	Efficient tracking of critical public health related data


MED:
Summary for Functions of hospital management

Dr.Medhat Shaaban
FollowDr.Medhat Shaaban
DBA,MSHA,MBA,EFQM,IC, Restructuring & Development Consultant,Trainer & Mentor 
The hospital is an integral part of a social and medical organization, the function of which is to provide for the population complete health care, both curative and preventive and whose outpatient services reach out to the family and its home environment; the hospital is also a center for the training of health worker and for biosocial research (WHO). Management is the process of designing and maintaining an environment in which individuals, working together in groups, efficiently accomplish selected aims
Management process in general: The functions of the management in all types of the organization remains the same and revolves around the following management functions
Planning: 
Objectives of the individual
Objectives of the organization
Policy and strategy of the hospital
Rules and procedures of hospital
Various health programs of the hospital
Priorities of the hospital
Patient Experience
Organizing:
Span of control 
Delegation of authority    
Use of staff and service groups
Informal groups of hospital
Integration of structural activities
Staffing:
Recruitment procedure
Developmental schemes of hospital in relation to human resource
Maintenance of staff
Utilization of staff
Directing:  
Leading the staff 
Motivating the staff
Communication channels and methods
Job satisfaction
Job enrichment and job enlargement schemes
Supervising of staff
 Controlling: 
Establishing standards of performance
Methods of measurement of performance
Comparison of performance with standards
Improving rate of return on investment
Developing effective budgeting
Employing better cost control and quality control
 Coordinating
Synergy among different units of the hospital
The combined and coordinated efforts make one plus one eleven


Hospitals, clinics and other health care facilities provide patient services through doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and other medical staff. However, to make a profit, provide quality service and survive as a business, hospitals must also handle administrative tasks, such as budgeting, human resources and maintaining supplies. Health care or medical services managers oversee these profit-making tasks.
Basic Responsibilities
The primary responsibility of health care managers is to foster an environment that can provide necessary and quality health care at maximum profit. They determine budgets, order and receive supplies, administer payroll and benefits, and distribute regular communications. They keep up with relevant health care laws, technology and standards, and represent their organizations at external meetings, such as community forums and investor gatherings. To determine health care needs and how medical decisions affect the procedures and finances of their facilities, managers conduct regular meetings with doctors, vendors and patients.
Size of Facility
In offices of individual doctors or small practices, managers may be the only non-medical worker. In larger concerns, they often oversee clerical and other administrative staff. In such cases, they maintain responsibility for interviewing, hiring and sometimes firing these workers. Managers determine salaries, assign work schedules and train staff, ensuring that they work well with existing staff. They may promote employees to supervisory or department head positions. Managers need excellent leadership skills to motivate their employees as well as good interpersonal abilities.
Types of Managers
The roles of managers vary according to their titles and the functions of their facilities. Hospital administrators are in charge of admissions, staff and upkeep of medical centers, making sure that patients receive the necessary services. In large facilities, clinical managers focus on a specific department, such as surgery or nursing. They set goals and procedures for their areas of responsibility after consulting with other clinical managers and the chief administrator. Health information managers ensure that sensitive medical data is safeguarded from casual and unauthorized access.
Career Outlook and Income
Health care managers usually enter their careers with a bachelors degree in health administration. They typically start as assistants so they can gain real-world experience. After many years of increasing responsibility, they may finally reach the manager position. From 2016 to 2026, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) predicts that health care managers will see job increases at a rate of 20 percent, which is more than twice the 8 percent rate for the average manager. The aging baby boomer population will demand more medical services, which managers oversee. As of May 2017, health care managers earned a median income of $98,350 per year, with annual lows under $58,350 and yearly highs exceeding $176,130, notes the BLS.


MED:
Hospital Administrator Career and Salary Profile
Career Categories 
Healthcare is a more complex business now than ever before  and its changing rapidly. Skilled hospital administrators are vital to ensuring that medical facilities run efficiently and deliver quality patient care. Depending on its size, a facility may have one or several administrators. Pursuing a career as a hospital administrator can be a rewarding way of helping others; enrolling in an MBA program with a specialization in Healthcare Management can be a way to begin the process.
Job Outlook for Hospital Administrators
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), employment of medical and health services managers, including hospital administrators, will significantly increase in the coming years. Jobs in the field are expected to grow by 17% from 2014 through 2024, much faster than the average growth rate of 7% for all occupations nationwide. Overall, the healthcare administration industry will see increasing demand for medical services due, in part, to baby boomers reaching retirement age.
Competition for jobs at the highest management levels is expected to be strong, and candidates with experience, business management skills and advanced degrees may have an advantage.
Job Duties
Hospital administrators are responsible for the day-to-day operation of a hospital, clinic, managed care organization or public health agency. To coordinate the actions of all departments and ensure they function as one, hospital administrators must hold a wide set of skills and knowledge. As part of their typical duties, these professionals may:
	Act as liaisons among governing boards, medical staff and departments heads
	Organize, direct, control and coordinate medical and health services in relation to policies set by a governing board of trustees
	Recruit, hire and evaluate assistant administrators, nurses and doctors
	Plan budgets and set rates for health services
	Develop and expand programs for scientific research
	Assist in the education of new doctors in teaching hospitals
	Develop procedures for quality assurance, patient services, medical treatments, department activities and public relations outreach
	Participate in fundraising and community health planning
Administrators need sharp business skills to handle long-term planning, development of operating objectives and budgets, and creation of an overall system for efficient delivery of medical services. These professionals also review financial reports, managed care contracts and major expenditures. They often establish and administer policies, and ensure they are uniformly understood and followed.
Hospital administrators must stay up-to-date with new healthcare laws and regulations, as well as medical and technological advances. A hospital administrators interpersonal skills come into use when supervising and mentoring staff, communicating with the community and interfacing with governing boards.
Work Conditions
Because healthcare is a 24/7 industry, these professionals may work flexible hours at times, and travel to conferences or among satellite facilities may be required. Work environments include:
	General care community hospitals
	Rehabilitation facilities
	Group medical practices
	Outpatient care locations
	Hospices
At large facilities, a team of administrators may work in specific clinical areas such as therapy, prenatal care or health information management. At smaller facilities, healthcare administrators may oversee many different areas, including personnel, admissions, research, education and finance.
Hospital administrators may choose to be a generalist or specialist. Generalists are typically responsible for managing an entire facility, while specialists are in charge of operations in a specific department such as human resources or finance. Specialization can depend on experience and education.
Salary Potential
According to BLS data, the average annual wage for medical and health services managers was $109,370 as of May 2016. Salary levels are typically commensurate with education, professional credentials and experience; those holding advanced degrees often earn salaries at the top end of the range.
As with employment opportunities, potential salary ranges can be influenced by factors such as local market conditions, and a candidates work history and educational qualifications.
Education and Training
At the administrator level, healthcare employers generally require a masters degree plus a number of years of experience. Candidates for hospital administrator jobs may have knowledge of health services administration, public health or long-term care administration.
When competing to land a hospital administrator position, individuals can benefit from earning an MBA with a specialization in Healthcare Management. Coursework typically includes healthcare policy, information management in healthcare, economics and financial management.
Employers may expect that professionals who have earned an MBAwith a specialization in Healthcare Management are able to:
	Solve real-world challenges with modern theories of leadership, management and negotiation
	Integrate marketing, operations, personnel and financial initiatives
	Assess risk using financial, statistical and economic data, and create manageable solutions
Hospital Administrator Career Path
If youre intrigued by the expanding healthcare industry and have business acumen, the position of assistant hospital administrator can be a starting point for a career in healthcare administration. These professionals work with hospital administrators on initiatives to improve efficiency and ensure quality delivery of healthcare services to patients.
Assistant hospital administrators also develop and document new procedures, and support the implementation of technical innovations throughout a facility. With more experience and education, assistant hospital administrators can advance to senior roles in healthcare administration.
Get program guide
YES! Please send me a FREE brochure with course info, pricing and more!
MED:
What Do Healthcare Administrators and Hospital Administrators Do?
 
Online Degrees | Master's | Health Administration | MHA Careers | What Do Healthcare Administrators and Hospital Administrators Do?
Administrative responsibilities in hospitals and other healthcare facilities need to be managed by professionals who have the knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework and the complexities involved with patient care. Healthcare organizations seek executive candidates with advanced degrees and an expertise in healthcare administration to fill positions for healthcare and hospital administrators.
What do healthcare administrators do and how do their responsibilities compare to those of other administrative professionals in the medical field? The discerning factor is the scope of the professionals responsibilities. Hospital administrators oversee medical facility processes. Healthcare administrators, on the other hand, need to have a much more comprehensive idea about healthcare organizations, including regulatory frameworks, the different entities involved in the process and their roles and overall health management policies.

Duties of Healthcare Administrators
Whether they work in nursing homes, private medical facilities or state-run emergency centers, healthcare administrators deal with everything related to operating healthcare sites and organizations.
A multi-disciplinary approach is essential in the field of healthcare administration. Some of the duties of these healthcare leaders include:
	Strategic planning of operations management within the respective facility or entity responsible for healthcare services
	Formulation of master budgets and budgetary allocations
	Introduction of productivity measures in the workplace
	Management of outsourced business services and communication with third parties or service providers
	Management and introduction of technological updates like the use of new software for record management
	Human resource management
	Design and maintenance of a compliance program to ensure that facilities maintain proper accreditation
	Creation of an emergency plan for adverse events and unforeseen circumstances
	Informing healthcare providers and caregivers about new regulations and providing training, if necessary
	Effective communication of new policies and procedures to staff, caregivers, and providers
What do healthcare administrators do? They lead interdisciplinary teams to improve patient care and outcomes while improving workplace efficiency and maintaining accreditation. They coordinate and organize everything from compliance to financial planning. Because of these diversified tasks, prospective healthcare administrators should consider an education program that offers instruction in many disciplines like human resources, psychology, finances, mathematics, and healthcare law.
Possible Work Settings for Hospital Administrators
Hospital administrators can put their leadership skills to use in any kind of organization or entity related to the healthcare field. They work in an array of different settings and industries, including in state-run hospitals or medical facilities, nursing homes, private medical practices, home health centers, health insurance companies, or governmental policy positions. Job duties may vary somewhat in each of these settings, but a degree in health administration should prepare students to work in any of them.
Qualifications for Hospital Administrators
Hospital administrators are leaders who have many responsibilities, so candidates must have both the education and experience to be considered for these positions. Usually, a relevant masters degree will be needed for mid- to high-level positions in a hospital, nursing and residential care facility, physicians office, insurance company or a governmental policy position. Undergraduate degrees are often required for entry-level hospital administration jobs.
Skills of the Ideal Healthcare Administrator
Healthcare administrators should be professionals who have the many competencies the different disciplines that running a healthcare facility or organization requires. They should work towards the development of critical skills like:
	Strong analytical skills. Health administrators and managers will need to go through legal documents, reports about hospital performance, and internal audits or guidelines. Strong analytical skills will be required to identify key data and put it to good use.
	Communication skills. Upon the completion of analyses, the findings and the new policies must be communicated with healthcare providers, caregivers, and other staff.
	Leadership skills. Pushing for change isnt always easy. Often, administrators face resistance to change. They need to have excellent leadership skills to manage change in a positive way that engages personnel and ensures the changes happen.
	Policy-making skills. Healthcare administrators must be pioneers. They are policy makers who understand new regulatory frameworks and develop implementation strategies to comply with regulations.
	Negotiation skills. Like the communication skills, negotiation skills are required to help resolve conflicts. Change isnt a smooth process, so the healthcare administrator must tactfully negotiate with stakeholders to ensure compliance.
	Extensive knowledge of the healthcare environment. To ensure smooth operations and enact change, healthcare administrators need a working knowledge of how healthcare organizations function.
	Technical skills. The healthcare administrator doesnt need to be a provider, but this person should understand enough about healthcare and technological innovations to form judgements about possible technological innovations and their adoption.
	Detail orientation. Healthcare administrators need to sweat the details. Since theyre the top executives in their organizations, theyre also the decision makers. When its time to take credit for smart decisions or when its time to hold someone accountable for poor decisions, its the systems chief administrators who take responsibility. Before they come to a decision, wise healthcare administrators review all the details to ensure that the decision is correct for the organization.
Salary Range for Healthcare Administrators
PayScale reports that the median annual salary of healthcare administrators is $63,414. Depending on experience and the area that they operate in, healthcare administrators can earn up to $100,735. Experienced health administrators who have over 20 years of work in the field can expect to earn a salary that is up to 40 percent higher than the national average.
Healthcare Administrators Job Outlook and Growth
The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports that the demand for top executive healthcare administrators will increase by 8 percent until 2026. The rate is quite higher than the national average for all professions and its also higher than the projected overall growth rate in the medical field.
According to industry analysts, health administrators may benefit from new professional and employment opportunities in the future. Apart from working for standard employers, like hospitals and clinics, such professionals are also likely to become more involved in the development of community programs and preventative policies aimed at controlling chronic diseases and other conditions.
The Future of Healthcare Administration
The short answer to What do healthcare administrators do?, is that they use their education and experience to lead, manage, and change healthcare organizations. The administrative side of healthcare is as important as providing patient care. Administrators make policies, enhance the efficiency of medical teams, and push for more change in the future. While they do carry a lot of responsibility, improving healthcare delivery in a facility, system or organization is a great reward.
The future looks bright for aspiring hospital administrators and other healthcare managers. Employment demand is steady, and openings are expected as current managers and leadership reach retirement age over the next decade. Candidates who possess masters degrees in health administration might find many opportunities in this field.


Med:
The Role of Hospital Management in Transforming Healthcare
Home ? Blog ? The Role of Hospital Management in Transforming Healthcare

In a time of rapid change in the healthcare system, its no surprise that hospitals across the country are examining new patient care delivery approaches. In many cases, business professionals with management experience are driving innovation. According to experts at the Harvard Business School (HBS), healthcare managers are the missing link when it comes to the debate surrounding healthcare reform. The skills and ideas that healthcare managers bring to the table provide a fresh approach with significant patient benefits.
The connection between patient care and management practice is the subject of a growing body of research. Physician Richard M. J. Bohmer, an HBS faculty member for 18 years, discussed his research into this area in an interview about his book, Designing Care: Aligning the Nature and Management of Health Care. He explained that management professionals have the specialized training to improve hospitals and other healthcare organizations. Some of the most important innovations are not technologic  they are in the way we organize care delivery, said Bohmer.

Though the focus of healthcare reform has largely been on policy, the way hospitals operate and manage services is an important part of facilitating changes that will lead to improved patient care. Hospital managers, unlike most policymakers, are directly involved in the healthcare system. They can manage actual care rather than the context in which the care takes place, Bohmer says. Over the past 10 to 15 years the object of management attention has widened [from focusing solely on the institution] to include the care itself.
Historically, hospitals have concentrated on acquiring technology and skilled physicians instead of designing unique care processes for patient groups. They left healthcare delivery to physicians who focused on the resources clinicians use as they provide care and on the hotel functions of inpatient institutions. In short, there was a clear separation between healthcare management and clinical practice.
Now, managers are combining business expertise with an understanding of the healthcare system to increase both efficiency and effectiveness. With rapid innovation and reform, the organization and delivery of care have become central to the management of hospitals and other organizations. This is because both patients and the federal government expect results that only skilled management professionals can deliver.

It is clear that healthcare managers and administrators have become a vital part of successful healthcare institutions. They attend to the business side of healthcare, working with every department to keep things running smoothly. Helen McKinnon, vice president of support services at Eastern Maine Medical Center (EMMC), emphasizes the interdisciplinary nature of healthcare management roles: Many areas report to me. One of them is facility and construction services, as well as nutrition services, pharmacy services and imaging. I work with the chaplain, the library staff and others. There [are] a lot of different support areas within the infrastructure to make sure we deliver what we have to for patient care.
In addition to working on budgets and developing new projects, hospital managers solve problems as they arise. They can do this because they have a business background that allows them to view the healthcare system through a logistical lens that emphasizes process and procedure improvements. As McKinnon puts it, I meet with the clinical staff almost every eight hours. Its a constant flow of communication, of testing, of getting the test results back. If any one of those systems go down, we always have to have the ability to respond to that. This requires an understanding of organizational theory, contemporary health issues, finance management, analytical tools and leadership concepts.
Healthcare managers work in settings like hospitals, medical practices, clinics and community health organizations. Although responsibilities vary widely depending on the size and type of institution, all healthcare managers work to make sure patients receive high-quality services in an efficient way. This can mean directing processes involved in therapy, nursing, surgery, recovery and more. On the administrative side, healthcare managers gather data related to facilities and finances, analyze it, and then present their findings to relevant stakeholders. Since healthcare industry regulations are constantly changing, healthcare managers must make sure their organizations are compliant. This requires an in-depth understanding of the latest healthcare news and policies.
The noticeable shift from a pay-for-procedure model to pay-for-performance is how hospitals across the country are working to improve patient care while decreasing costs. In addition, as aging baby boomers require more medical care, many institutions are expanding operations and increasing the number of beds. For example, more than 14 percent of the population in Bangor, Maine, is made up of individuals who are age 65 or older. As a result, many hospitals have undertaken large-scale modernization projects that will add much-needed space to the hundreds of beds they already have. With new surgical suites, cardiovascular facilities and critical care units, hospitals will be better equipped to deal with changing demographics and increased demand for care.

Demographic changes combined with a growing need for quality healthcare and business efficiency are leading to an increased demand for qualified healthcare managers. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of medical and health services managers is expected to increase by 22 percent through the year 2022, a rate that is much faster than the national average for job growth. From a compensation perspective, its clear that healthcare systems understand the important role well-educated and trained managers play. The average salary was $84,270 in 2010, with top earners bringing in more than $144,880 per year.

Healthcare managers are generally required to have a bachelors degree. Those who wish to remain competitive in this fast-paced healthcare industry would be well-advised to earn a graduate degree. An MBA with a concentration in healthcare management is one way to be successful.
The combination of business and healthcare systems coursework helps graduates become leaders who can motivate others, think critically and solve problems. Business programs with a focus on management practices help prepare students for career success in the healthcare sector. This makes an MBA a valuable credential. Coursework related to healthcare economics, financial management, quality management and law empowers professionals with the skills and background knowledge required to keep pace with innovation. As healthcare delivery continues to change, healthcare managers and administrators will continue to play a key role in shaping the systems and processes of tomorrow.

For those interested in a healthcare management career, an online degree from Husson University is an ideal place to start. The Master of Business Administration program offers a concentration that provides a specialized education for business professionals looking to make their mark on the changing healthcare system. Students benefit from advanced business education and dedicated coursework that prepares them for leadership roles in hospitals and other health services organizations. As McKinnon puts it, Husson University has been on the leading edge for many years. They understand that there is a growing need for healthcare education. To learn more, click here.

MED:
Importance of Hospital Management in Healthcare Institutions
By: Technecon Healthcare In Blog
Hospital Managers and Administrators are the key drivers for the success of any healthcare institution. Few years ago, business oriented hospital managers would focus mainly on acquiring state of the art technology and engaging skilled medical consultants with limited concentration on service delivery model of patient care and designing unique care processes. The patient care and quality was entirely dependent on the medical consultants as the hospital managers did not have sound knowledge about the healthcare system.
With rapid transformation in the healthcare system and a growing need for quality healthcare, the hospital managers are now combining business expertise with an understanding of the healthcare system to increase efficiency and effectiveness of healthcare delivery and patient satisfaction. Thus, hospital management has evolved over the years.
Most hospitals with state of the art technology face financial challenges owing to ever burgeoning cost of healthcare delivery. There is a continuous increase in the expenses of a hospital with respect to cost of new medical equipment, materials, maintenance, procurement cost, salary towards staff, etc.  With a rise in the number of healthcare providers, growing competition and focus on patient-centricity, hospitals are adopting new patient care service models. It is rightly said that Some of the most important innovations are not technologic  they are in the way we organize care delivery. Hospital managers play a crucial role in streamlining various processes and making it a financially viable healthcare facility.

Role of hospital management:
	Establishing and framing policies, communicating them to their staff and helping them in implementing these in the hospital.
	Improving day to day operations such as managing human resources, allocating budgets and other financial resources, materials management, and actively participating in vendor selection and implementing IT system.
	Co-ordinating well with all the internal stakeholders (doctors, nurses, paramedics, administrators, technicians, pharmacists, IT staff, housekeeping staff and other professionals) and addressing their specific needs with an overall focus on patient care. Employees are the biggest assets in any institution and hence motivating and incentivizing them helps in improving their efficiency.
	Designing appropriate tariff structure and packages for various services in consensus with the respective staff and undertaking revision of tariff as and when required.
	Understanding and identifying areas of improvement in patient flow, quality of care and various processes, all inclined towards a patient- centric model.
	Meeting hospital norms and quality standards required for NABH and JCI accreditation.
	Marketing hospital services in order to remain competitive and ensuring that the institution develops a greater reach in the society and amongst healthcare seekers and the professionals providing healthcare services.
	Planning for the hospitals other projects (e.g. an extension/ expansion or a completely new hospital or procuring advanced technology) and devising the funding route/mechanism.

Recommended For You >>  Online Solutions for Hospitals

Thus, hospital management plays a crucial role in implementing innovative methodologies, thereby impacting patient experience positively and ensuring a successful and profitable healthcare institution. In conclusion, innovative and good healthcare management marks the success of a good hospital.


MED:
The Role of Hospitals in Community and Economic Development
You are here
Home  //  The Role of Hospitals in Community and Economic Development
 
CC0
MAY 4, 2017
KATE SAMUELSON
Across differing regions, medical institutions (often referred to as anchor institutions) play a major role in the social and economic vitality of cities. In total, hospitals provide employment for more than 5.7 million Americans, with tens of thousands of new healthcare jobs added each month. Additionally, hospitals spend over $852 billion on goods and services annually and generate greater than $2.8 trillion of economic activity. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that, between 2014 and 2024, the healthcare industry will grow faster and add more jobs than any other sector.
Hospitals are particularly important in high-poverty areas. In each of the largest twenty U.S. cities, a health system is among the top ten private employers; in high-poverty communities, a health system is almost always among the top five. About one in fifteen of the largest hospitals in the U.S. are located in inner cities, and these hospitals alone spend more than $130 billion each year. Because not-for-profit hospitals are tax-exempt, surrounding neighborhoods might view them as disconnected from small business and community development. However, the missions and bottom lines of hospitals tie them to their respective communities. More than other industries, the hospital industry has the ability and incentive to leverage resources for community revitalization.
Increasingly, hospital executives are pursuing upstream interventions to minimize downstream costs. There is a major push to make healthcare for low-income individuals less reactive and more proactive; hospitals are striving to reach these patients more frequently at less expensive points in the healthcare system. Community health centers lack the capacity to fully serve the large population without quality health insurance. Private hospitals effectively serve as the insurers of last resort, caring for uninsured patients who cant afford to pay their medical bills. Many are aiming to generate long-term savings through population health and community development strategies.
When not-for-profit hospitals address socioeconomic issues in the communities they serve, they help residents to afford health insurance, reduce costs due to preventable and chronic conditions, and support their own workforce needs. Building community wealth improves the ability of local residents (who are likely patients) to pay for care. Further, attending to the social determinants of health can prevent or significantly reduce the management cost of chronic conditions such as diabetes, which disproportionately affects low-income individuals.
Community building, the highly necessary counterpart to healthcare access work, has been steadily gaining traction within the field of public health. According to the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, sixty percent of premature deaths are related to environmental conditions, social circumstances, and behavioral patterns; just ten percent are the result of inadequate healthcare access. Moreover, ninety-eight percent of hospital CEOs agree that, at least at some level, hospitals should investigate and implement population health management strategies. Hospitals are increasingly acting on the growing evidence base suggesting that interventions to improve a communitys social and economic health can significantly impact community members physical and mental health.
Since around the mid-1990s, hospitals across the U.S. have experimented with innovative approaches to community and economic development. In Rochester, Minnesota, Mayo Clinic invested $7 million to establish First Homes, a community land trust. The trust has created 875 units of high-quality affordable housing and encouraged over $360 million of private investment in downtown Rochester. In Boston, Massachusetts, Partners Healthcare (parent to Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham & Womens Hospital) has integrated community health improvement with workforce development, providing job training and a pathway to entry- and mid-level employment (approximately 90% placement rate) for over 400 community members. Since 1990, San Francisco-based Dignity Health (formerly Catholic Healthcare) has provided $133 million in below-market interest rate loans and $47 million in grants to nonprofits improving health and quality of life in its service area. These are just a few examples of the many meaningful ways in which hospitals are supporting their communities, making local capacity building a priority, and creating the foundation for long-term poverty alleviation.
The reconceptualization of healthcare to include social determinants of health is critical to public health and economic development alike. Nonprofit hospitals, private health foundations, government institutions, and other entities must collaborate to address the multi-faceted, social drivers of health disparities.


Med:
The Changing Role Of The Hospital
Challenges of Hospital Management
                                                            
The situation of hospitals at the end of the last century could be defined as transitional; between a stable model of partly predictable changes and the new schema of the healthcare environment and hospital management we know today. Hospitals are evolving within this new framework and the challenge for the management will be to define a relevant strategy, readable by all teams and at the same time manage uncertainty and constantly adapt to internal and external changes.

Paradoxically, in a world with uncertain futures, the years 2010 to 2020 will herald an integrated view of the management of health organisations.
 
The many challenges and constraints faced by hospitals will inevitably question their management.
 
The first uncertainties that hospital managers will face regard the use of the hospital during the next decade. Indeed, the progression of chronic diseases correlated with the increasing age of the population may suggest that the rate of hospital use will increase. At the same time, the reorganisation of care could lead to the management of a large proportion of patients outside the hospital. Everything will then depend on the number of years without disabilities of the elderly population, as well as access to healthcare services for a part of the population. Concerning the need for care, in the upcoming years we will fluctuate between the development of personalised medicine, such as expensive targeted therapies for cancer and the use of mass medicine, which could be boosted by the resurgence of infectious diseases.
 
Thus, the hospital, by the universality of its missions is often disrupted in its organisation, torn between emergency care and planned management of patients. These two aspects of hospital activity can be illustrated by the uninterrupted admissions into emergency departments and outpatient surgery.
 
In France, the degree of competitive pressure is among the highest in Europe. Its intensity varies with the territory, making it a risk factor or, conversely, an opportunity for public health facilities. For example, if  ome hospitals suffer locally from increased competition in certain surgical disciplines and oncology. In recent years the share of public hospital surgical activity increased. This trend is expected to continue in the coming years, especially in terms of plans for the retention of doctors and nurses.
 
The importance of human resources management in the hospital will only continue to grow, not only because it is a critical component in the operation of hospitals, but because they represent a survival issue for most hospitals. This particularly important with the medical staff, whose figures are contradictory. The past decade has been one of continued growth of the workforce with a halt in 2009 for non-medical personal. At the same time, there are about 15,000 vacancies (full-time and part-time combined) for hospital doctors and the weight of the competition is very strong in some medical disciplines.
 
To date, one of the biggest unknown factors remains the level of resources and financing methods. The major breakthrough of the last decade has been driven by pricing activity coupled with regulation of volume/tariffs. This is has generally enabled hospitals to gain control over their development because of the automatic level of resources generated by the increase in hospital stays. The downside was not really being able to anticipate this level of resources due to constant changes in pricing stays, definitions of the scope of pricing activity and the frequent drop in rates offsetting volumes of activity. But this pricing method is especially questioned in terms of relevance of some stays, hence the emergence of new approaches of pay-for-performance, performance expressed in terms of quality and appropriate care episodes in a management chain.
 
At the same time, the social protection systems in Europe are affected by the economic crisis: since 2010, some countries have resorted to a severe drop or a cap on hospital allocations.
 
In comparison, France has not experienced a decrease in resources, neither in relative or absolute value. However, given the objectives of economic competitiveness displayed, the level of social protection is highly regulated in value. The "natural trend" of hospital spending growth in relative value is (3.5%). Consequently, the financial balances are not, in fact, possible without gains in productivity or without additional contribution from the patient, often by support from their complementary social protection.
 
The development, or at least the continued investment and equipment, will also be a major challenge for the coming period. Previous years have seen a meteoric rise in the construction of hospital buildings and investments in general. More often than not, investments were made in response to a need but, on the other hand, they led to an increase in debt and sometimes deficits as generally the tariffs do not cover the additional costs associated with these investments. In addition, the economic crisis has dried up access to loans, and it is only recently that the provisions of investment support have emerged through the creation of tools for financing public investment, like in France, with the establishment of a public investment bank in the first half of 2013.
 
Hospital decision makers will also face the issue of equipment costs notably with the development of operating robots or information systems. The high price of new technologies can slow down their development. For example, a PET scan costs more than 2, 5 millions, plus an extra 2 million every year. Similarly, the Da Vinci robot price is 1, 2 million, plus an extra of 150 000 for maintenance each year.
 
This will lead to a pressure on organisations to make best use of these new technologies. The opposite may also occur, with some institutions searching for substitutes for costly items. The high cost of construction such as building infrastructure and materials raises the question of the creation or transformation of hospital organisation with regulated and even lower costs. Will there soon be Smart Hospitals?
 
Finally, there is the major subject of the coordinated organisation of care in a geographic area. This organisation is planned by the health authorities but at the same time pricing mechanisms and remuneration models are differentiated between professionals depending on whether they work at the hospital or at a doctors surgery. This leads to strong competition between the two. Institutions will therefore fluctuate between cooperation and competition, which some authors have called "coopetition". This will result in more a comprehensive healthcare organisation, with a view to allow users to move easily between community care and specialised care.

The Integrated Approach to Managing Complex Organisations
Today it is essential for managers, current and future, to have a global vision and 360 degree competences of the healthcare system and its organisations, hence the importance of a more integrated approach. It is obviously not about dreaming of integrated systems and organisations, but to take into account different parameters, sometimes contradictory effects, in order to guide an organisation today and manage the health services of tomorrow.
 
Regarding health strategy, the hospital director of tomorrow will need to develop a broader vision and develop its activities in coordination with other institutions within a defined geographic area. It is therefore important to define the scope of activities, shared-or-related, in order to ensure both continuity of care and the allocation of the necessary resources. To be able to develop successful organisations, it will be necessary to convince, on an internal level, all professionals who may be concerned. The management will also need to deploy a strong ability to negotiate with external partners. Therefore, we move from a structural management to the management of activities, and then the management of care pathways.
 
The management of healthcare organisations will have to rely on the processing of more and more precise data, this could be described as managerial epidemiology. While handling the "big data" is often regarded as a major competitive advantage, this approach requires a clear strategic line and a strong leadership from the directors of institutions, in order to involve all hospital staff in the transformation of organisations.
 
The establishment of multi-disciplinary teams also promotes a qualitative approach to the management of human resources, both to define the competencies required but also to lead multi-disciplinary groups. Behind this, there are issues of attraction and retention for hospitals as well as financial issues, if we consider the cost of absenteeism and inefficiency. It is in this sense that human resource management should take into account various parameters related to each other.
 
Finally, managing an institution is also managing processes, following a project or activity from the beginning to the end. This applies particularly to supply management and the provision of services, what is called the "supply chain." But the ambition in this area is mainly to develop the same approach to integrated processes of care, in a kind of device operations management applied to healthcare organisations. In fact, the management of care pathways, which has become a priority in France, is process management. This method of management aims to ensure continuity of care and ensure support in the right place at the right time. In the years to come hospital management will be devoted to this construction.
 
Conclusions
The hospital managers of tomorrow will have to manage uncertainty, even though teams will demand transparency in reference to their values and their desire to ensure a stable environment for their patients. The role of hospital manager will be difficult. But the contradictory forces that cross the health system also provide an opportunity to review the nature of the services to be provided and hence the organisation of activities such as working with the support of patients, who are now experts and hospital professionals..


MED:
Chapter 3: The Moral Climate of Health Care
 Section 4. The Role of PATIENT
Every social institution assigns roles within them to the principle groups. In education there are educators and those receiving education. The providers are called teachers and the recipients are called students.
There is a problem when people come to regard the human beings occupying the social role within an institution as little more than what is represented by that role. Students do not cease being men and women , brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers, friends, coworkers and a lot more when they enter a building to receive educational instruction. Neither do human beings cease being human beings when they enter a doctor's office, a hospital or a medical laboratory.
Some, perhaps too many ( way too many), health care providers appear to focus only and specifically on the social role of "patient" when they look at and interact with the recipient of health care.
Economy and efficiency appear to support a viewing of the human being as a unit for treatment and billing.
For the hospital the recipient of health care is a billing unit and for the physicians and nurses and most others the recipient is called a "patient".
As a "patient" the human being is now removed from being seen and treated as human with all the civility and respect that a human deserves and should expect.
Once labeled as a "patient" the person is lost and the billing unit or treatment entity is now to be processed within the health care institution.
This common labeling and dismissing of the uniqueness and humanness of the individual leads to a number of problems for the individual. Some of them are coming to be realized by the health care institution but not because there is the desire to become more humane and to offer service and care to human beings and not just billing unit or patients but because the labeling reinforces a callousness that leads to mistakes and that leads to malpractice suits and adverse judgments and that costs money. Take one example. In one hospital facing an ever increasing deductible amount in its malpractice insurance coverage a hospital review committee determined that some errors could be avoided by talking greater care to properly identify who was to receive what treatment. An order was issued that no one was to render any service based on an instruction unless the person receiving care was referred to be name, by the full name. Hence there were to be no more orders to :
1. draw blood from B- meaning the person in cubicle or bed B
2. give 15cc of cumidin to the patient in 233-meaning the person in room 233
At first the staff responded that the order would be too difficult to follow. However, it was observed. The recipients of care are often made to wear some identification device upon their body. This is there to insure they are properly identified. Those rendering care should make an effort to insure that they recognize by full name the person who is to be given any service.
***************************
CASE:
In a NYC hospital, a very fine hospital, a brain surgeon performed an operation on the wrong person. The recipient of the wrong operation was a woman from India. the whole incident might have been given little attention were it not for the fact that the woman was the mother of one of India 's leading celebrities, a movie star. Now the media was given the story. The incident was examined. It turned out that a nurse thought that the name on the woman's wrist was not the same name as one the documents being read by the surgeon. the surgeon pressed ion with the preparation and performed the surgery. He dismissed that alarm of the nurse by stating that " Those Indian names are all alike"
The woman received the wrong operation and on the wrong side of her brain. Her daughter removed her from that hospital and had surgery performed at another NYC hospital.
Now the key issue here was that the surgeon was only there to perform the surgery and had no knowledge of whom he was to operate upon nor did he seem to care. An operation was scheduled on a patient in operating room C at 9:30am and he went in a did that procedure.


MED:
10 best hospitals to work for, ranked by employees
Written by Leo Vartorella | August 29, 2017 | Print  | Email
inShare
Jobs in healthcare are often stressful and demanding, but a new study from Indeed analyzed over 15 million employee reviews on its website to compile a list of the best hospitals to work for.
Listed below are the top 10 best hospitals to work for, according to employee reviews.
1. Massachusetts General Hospital (Boston)
2. Baptist Health South Florida (Coral Gables, Fla.)
3. Houston (Texas) Methodist
4. Montefiore Medical Center (New York)
5. Texas Children's Hospital (Houston)
6. Michigan Medicine (Ann Arbor, Mich.)
7. Yale New Haven (Conn.) Health
8. Children's Healthcare (Atlanta)
9. Florida Hospital (Orlando, Fla.)
10. Stanford Health Care (Palo Alto, Calif.)

MED:
10 reasons you should choose a career in 

10 reasons why you should choose a career in Medicine
A career in medicine is one of the oldest and most respected professions; it allows you the potential to impact human life in a way that is truly unique and the job satisfaction you get is unparalleled. A field in which one needs to put others first, medicine is truly a service and not just a profession. The hard work and countless hours one needs to invest in studying medicine can come across as an arduous task, but the power to save lives is well-worth the effort.
10 REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD CHOOSE A CAREER IN MEDICINE:
There are many reasons why students choose to study medicine from personal calling to job stability. Although everyone has his or her own motivations, there are myriads of practical aspects that can make medicine a desirable career option.
1. This career is not only a service to the society but also one that will give you respect.
2. The financial gains in the profession may not be comparable to some other professions but there is an inherent stability as it isn't as susceptible to downfall as numerous other careers.
3. Stability alongside satisfaction is what people aim for in their lives, and the field of medicine is a preferable way to achieve this.
4. This is a diverse and vast field where one never ceases to learn. The basic medical degree(MBBS) is just the initial stage in gaining knowledge and competence for a future in medicine where you strive for the common good.
5. The 5.5 years bachelor's degree in medicine (4.5 years for MBBS + 1 year of Internship) can introduce you to a whole new world of possibilities. After 5.5 years of training, some graduates decide to practice medicine while others chose to study further specialisations like surgery, dermatology, medicine etc. 
6. Apart from pursuing a career as a doctor, one can also look for a career in medical research or can become a medical scientist.
7. There's also the option of opening up a consultancy for various health related programmes. The heads of medicinal businesses are also now beginning to opt for a degree in medical sciences to raise their capabilities.
8. In this field, you are on a path of continuous progress. Constant development and upgrade in technology require you to adapt to brand new innovative ideas and equipment. Dealing with patients regularly makes you empathise with others better which, in turn, add value to your medical practice. 
9. This field is for the ones who love to challenge themselves every day. One needs to possess strong decision-making skills to shape a career in medicine. Real time thinking and rightly employing knowledge is an essential part of a medical practitioners' job; one small mistake can affect someone's life to a great extent. Compassion towards humanity, stronger belief system and desire to bring a positive change are the driving forces for finding success in the world of medicine.
10. Through this field, one can aim to reach the global stage, albeit with perseverance and utmost dedication. Wearing a white coat gives you a big responsibility, a responsibility of improving people's lives. Only a doctor can truly understand how joyous it is when he or she saves a life of a patient which is in the clutches of a life-threatening disease. The impact of an antidote discovered by you could save millions of lives across the world. This is the incomparable joy and satisfaction that leads many to opt for medicine as a profession.
With the world moving forward in such a fast pace, people are becoming increasingly negligent towards their health. While being constantly surrounded by technologies and leading a work-oriented lifestyle, the Gen Z is even more vulnerable to ill health. Owing to the factors like increasing advent of diseases and present day lifestyles, the need of good medical professionals is constantly increasing.
Disclaimer: This content including advice provides generic information only. It is in no way a substitute for qualified medical opinion. Always consult a specialist or your own doctor for more information.
Authored by Dr Sameer and Sonia Lal Gupta,Founders, Voiceofhealth.in


MED;
Is a profession in medicine over-hyped in India?
Ad by Quora for Business

Quora has great answers. Have a great solution? Promote it here.

Businesses find great customers by targeting related topics. Create a free account in minutes.

Sign up at quora.com
3 Answers
India
Updated Oct 14, 2016  Author has 324 answers and 1.7m answer views
Disclaimer: The answer is based on my personal observations. I immensely respect the profession of medicine and have worked closely with them. Saving a life is an act comparable to none, but I feel profession of medicine is over-rated in India. 
I have known many medicine practitioners who also feel the same. Irrespective of huge sampling bias , here is my take.
1. My maternal family is a family of doctors ( Doctor means medicine practitioner in India and not a doctor like Dr Sheldon Cooper ).
As soon as possible, the child enrolls for a coaching institute to crack medical entrance, gets into a medicine school, does MBBS, enrolls for a coaching to crack PG, does PG and meanwhile finds a suitable mate who can profitably help running a private clinic.
The first generation of family did MBBS in government colleges, second generation paid crores to get into private colleges apparently to run the hospitals their parents established.
Doctors breed doctors !
2. My best friend, an AIIMS resident will marry only a doctor, because onlydoctors understand doctors !
3. According to many relatives of mine, my education with biology is a sheer waste because I am not a doctor!
4. Another friend is in love with a lawyer but is sceptical to get married because doctors don't gel well with lawyers!
5. My distant aunt who has a beautiful daughter is hunting for a doctor husband for her because doctori ki dukaan kabhi thandi nahi hoti!
(There is no dearth of opportunities in profession of medicine !)
6. Every student who opts for biology is forced to write the entrance examination for medicine at least once, because biology means medicine !
7. Psychiatrists and Psychologists are not doctors. And yes BAMS, BHMS are also not doctors !
8. Surgeon girl can't get married to anaesthetist guy and forget a dentist but vice versa can be worked out. There is hierarchy in matrimony as in medical entrance !

MED:
Doctors Reveal 12 Things No One Tells You About Pursuing a Career in Medicine
________________________________________
	MEDICAL PRACTICE
 12.04.2017
Youve always dreamt of becoming a doctor and have done your fair share of research. You may think you know what its like being a medical student, or what to expect in your residency. Perhaps you know doctors personally and feel like you have a pretty good idea of what their shifts entail.

But do you really know what its like pursuing a career in medicine? Do you know what life is truly like on the other side of the exam table?

We spoke with a handful of doctors to learn about the things they never expected to experience in medical school and beyond. Their insight and firsthand experience can help give you a head start in your medical career. 
12 INSIDER INSIGHTS ABOUT PURSUING A CAREER IN MEDICINE
1. YOU MAY STRUGGLE ACADEMICALLY FOR THE FIRST TIME IN YOUR LIFE
Medical schools attract and admit the brightest of the bright. Most incoming students have a track record of earning impressive grades and performing well on exams, as demonstrated in their stellar academic backgrounds. But even the most intelligent students who graduated with ease may find medical school to be an entirely different level of rigor.

I underestimated how hard medical school is, admits Dr. Richard Beddingfield, author of Med School Uncensored. He goes on to explain that the sheer amount of information, the time most students have to study in order to stay on top of things, and the frequency of exams during the first two pre-clinical years can be overwhelming to even the highest-caliber students. 

For most students, medical school is the first experience in which they work very hard academically and still may be nothing more than average in the class, Dr. Beddingfield adds. Knowing this up front can help you avoid the shock and focus on pushing through.
2. YOU CAN (AND WILL) HAVE A SOCIAL LIFE IN MEDICAL SCHOOL
Yes, medical school is rigorous and demanding, but trying times have a way of bringing people together. 

Most pre-meds underestimate the social life during med school, particularly during the first two years, Dr. Beddingfield explains. Your pre-clinical years will likely have you surrounded by a relatively small group of peers, all on the same schedule of classes and exams. 

Post-exam parties and post-lecture happy hours are inevitable, Dr. Beddingfield adds. Some great friendships are formed during medical school.
3. YOULL HAVE TO LEARN TO FILTER YOURSELF AROUND FRIENDS
What did you do today? 

Whether in medical school, residency, or as a practicing doctor, your answer to this question could very likely shock, horrify, or disgust your friends and family. Youll need to start being more conscientious about topics of discussion  drawing a line between medical peers and personal acquaintances.

Your dinner conversations will never be the same again, says Dr. Alex Roher, a board-certified Anesthesiologist and founder of SD Botox, who says hes become accustomed to grossing out his non-medical friends.
4. YOULL NEED TO DECIDE ON A SPECIALTY EARLIER THAN YOU THINK
Getting into medical school is no small feat. The MCAT and admissions process will likely dominate your thoughts for some time. But aspiring doctors need to also be thinking about long-term decisions, like which medical specialty youd like to pursue.

Most pre-meds are so invested in the process of simply getting into medical school that they have given no thought to specialties or how to get into their specialties of choice, Dr. Beddingfield says. He says this decision needs to be made surprisingly early on, especially if youre interested in an especially desirable specialty.

Some medical specialties are very competitive, requiring extensive planning and superior performance throughout the first two years of medical school, Dr. Beddingfield explains. The rat race doesn't stop with acceptance to med school!
5. THE RICH DOCTOR STEREOTYPE ISNT ALWAYS ACCURATE
Youre probably well aware that the average physician salary sits much higher than most other professions. Ranging greatly by specialty and region, doctors can expect to earn anywhere from over $200,000 to just shy of $500,000 per year.

While most pre-medical students hope to enter the field for altruistic purposes, the financial draw of the medical profession does not go unnoticed. But if salary is your sole motivator, you may end up sorely disillusioned.

Pursuing a career in medicine is far from a quick rags to riches story, Dr. Beddingfield states. The stereotype of the rich doctor isn't nearly as universal or straightforward as most people think. Between the financial burden of medical school and the time spent completing courses, residency, and training, dont expect a career in medicine to be a get-rich-quick scheme.

Dr. Beddingfield goes on to point out that many aspiring medical students are equally capable of other respected and high-earning professional careers, including business, law, dentistry, and engineering. Most of these fields have far shorter, and typically less expensive, training and education requirements. So if youre in it for just the money, you may want to rethink your plans.
6. YOULL BE A DIFFERENT PERSON WHEN YOU GRADUATE FROM MEDICAL SCHOOL
As we already mentioned, medical school is intensive and rigorous. Your stamina and determination will be tested time and time again. You can expect plenty of late nights studying during school, and several overnight shifts during your residency. The exertion will take a toll on you, and through it all youll come out a different person.

The sleep deprivation experienced in medical school, residency training, and medical practice can significantly change a persons personality, says Dr. Bernard Remakus, an Internist and author. But this personal growth is all part of becoming an amazing doctor. All of the hard work and sleepless nights will only help fuel the passion and determination youll draw upon throughout your entire career.
7. SLEEPLESS NIGHTS ARENT LIMITED TO MEDICAL SCHOOL
Speaking of sleepless nights, college students  and medical students especially  are notorious for pushing their limits, studying into the wee hours of the morning. But dont expect your days of pulling all-nighters to be behind you after graduation.

So you finish medical school, residency, and become a full-fledged practicing doctor. You are ready for a good night sleep. Forget about it, laughs Dr. Roher. Modern working arrangements have brought into existence the week of nights, where you work four or five and sometimes seven night shifts in a row.

Of course, this depends on your area of practice and your employer. But for many in medicine, working overnights are part of the deal.
8. YOURE GOING TO HAVE YOUR HEART BROKEN
Practicing medicine affords you the great privilege of helping others, saving lives, and pursuing an impactful career. But your patients will not always make full recoveries, and they will not always survive. In some cases, medicine can only do so much.

Aspiring doctors are an empathetic lot, and there will be times that your heart strings will be tugged, says Dr. Joseph Alton, an author and retired Obstetrician and Pelvic Surgeon. For him, it was sick children, especially those in cancer wards. My rotations in these units left me depressed and heartbroken, and more than once in tears.

As a doctor, you won't be able to completely escape sad situations. Be prepared to give not only of your medical skills, but also your emotional support as well, Dr. Alton adds.
9. MEDICAL SCHOOL DOESNT TEACH YOU HOW TO BECOME A DOCTOR
Believe it or not, all the blood, sweat, and tears shed in medical school doesnt produce doctors. Rather, doctors emerge from their cocoons in residency and practice. 

Very few students ever learn how to actually practice medicine in medical school. That comes during residency training and post-graduate practice, Dr. Remakus says. He explains that your first years in medical school are more about learning the scientific foundations of medicine, which lays the groundwork for the rest of your training. And its quite possible that the material you study in school will be outdated by the time you begin practicing, proving the importance of continual learning throughout your career.

This puts the onus on the student to cautiously consider issues rather than just memorize them, and stay abreast of the latest medical developments when they finally finish their formal education and begin their own practices, Dr. Remakus adds.
10. ITS HARD TO CONCEPTUALIZE HOW MUCH OF YOUR LIFE WILL BE SPENT BECOMING A DOCTOR
Many aspiring doctors know its their desired career path early on in life. But when youre in your teens or early 20s, its difficult to wrap your head around the amount of time youll actually need to devote to achieve your dream of becoming a doctor.

I think most pre-meds underestimate just how much of their lives will be absorbed by medical training, Dr. Beddingfield says. He explains that it typically requires four years of medical school, three to five years of residency, and one to four additional years of fellowship, if that route is chosen. 

Given that the average age of matriculation is 24, most physicians are well into their early- or mid-30s by the time they are actually entering the profession as practicing doctors, Dr. Beddingfield adds. Its important to really have a grasp on the investment needed in order to follow this career path.
11. HAVING A DOCTOR IN THE FAMILY CAN BE BENEFICIAL
Medical students with close connections to doctors, either through friends or family, have a unique, invaluable advantage. These individuals can provide a wealth of wisdom and be confidants, listeners, and voices of reason throughout the strenuous process of becoming a doctor.

Medical students with relatives or friends who are doctors are at a distinct advantage because they have resources to guide them that are not available to students without lifelines to call when problems arise, Dr. Remakus says.
12. YOULL NEVER BE FULLY PREPARED
Even after all those years of training and preparation, youll never be able to learn everything. Medicine is a field that will keep you on your toes, with each day bringing the unexpected. Because you cant possibly prepare for every potential scenario, your ability to think on your feet and act accordingly under pressure will serve you well.

As confident as you are going into a situation, you must always expect the unexpected, according to Dr. Ryan Polselli, a Diagnostic Radiologist. He recalls a time early on in his residency when he was asked to obtain a medical history and physical exam for a new admission. I had done this dozens of times and felt confident I could get to the bottom of any situation within 20 minutes, Dr. Polselli says.

When he entered the room, the patients tongue was so swollen that he was only able to utter some basic sounds and poorly formed words. After a few failed attempts at speaking back and forth, Dr. Polselli opted to grab a pen and paper and communicated that way.

No lip reading, translator, phone app, or communications training could have prepared me for that situation, Dr. Polselli says

MED:
Is a Career in Medicine Right for You?

Choosing your career is one of the most important decisions that you will ever make. When asked why they chose to pursue medicine, most physicians respond that they wanted to make a difference by helping people and positively impacting their lives through health care.
Serving others as a physician is a noble and challenging way to invest your intellect, skills, and passion in a demanding and rewarding profession.
Questions to Ask When Considering a Career in Medicine
"What types of physicians are needed?"
While all types of physicians are needed to care for the health of the public, primary care physicians are crucial, especially in underserved areas. A health care system built upon an adequate supply of primary care physicians is shown to improve health outcomes and reduce costs.
The Affordable Care Act, now health care law in the United States, reinforces the need for primary care physicians through the implementation of measures that:
?	Increase patient access to health care insurance coverage
?	Incentivize preventive health care and align health care provider payments with patient health outcomes
?	Increase the primary care physician workforce
Family physicians provide more primary care than any other medical specialty in the United States, and the need for family physicians continues to grow.
________________________________________
Discover why primary care is a crucial part of health care 
________________________________________
"Is a career in medicine right for me?"
A career in medicine is a career of:
?	Service -- The profession of medicine requires a unique commitment to put the service of others first.
?	Knowledge -- Physicians are lifelong learners, always acquiring new skills and learning new information.
?	Teamwork -- Physicians must be effective communicators and collaborative problem solvers.
?	Contribution -- A physician impacts the lives of individuals, families, and communities.
?	Flexibility -- There are many career options for physicians, ranging from primary care to research.
?	Security -- Physicians are in high demand, as health care needs continue to rise and evolve.
As you weigh your career options, take time to reflect upon how the opportunities, preferences, and talents you possess compare with the demands and benefits of a medical career. Here are some suggestions to help you get started.


MED:
The Difference Between Pharma Sales and Medical Device Sales
Tweet Share Share
on August 1, 2016 in Advice, Featured
Bigstock  Morganka
So, youve decided on a career in medical or pharmaceutical sales. While both industries pay well, offer excellent benefits, have flexible schedules, and may include other attractive perks, you must first hone in on what exactly it is that you want to do, and consider the distinct qualifications that are required for each position.
In addition, you should also familiarize yourself with the roles of various jobs which includes understanding the differences between each of them.  In this particular case, well be looking at pharmaceutical sales jobs and medical device sales jobs. How are they different? Are they similar at all?
Getting Started
Linda Hertz, founder of the pharmaceutical sales recruiter service, the Linda Hertz Group, recently outlined a detailed response to the question, How do I break into pharmaceutical sales? In her response, she outlined steps for not only finding jobs but also described the major differences between pharmaceutical and medical device sales, stressing the importance of knowing both how and why.
People outside of the medical industry sometimes have a tendency to lump all medical sales together as pharmaceutical sales. Even within the industry, the line can get somewhat blurred for sale reps. Its important that you target exactly the type of sales that you are looking for in order to be successful. You can start by understanding the differences between pharmaceutical sales jobs and medical device sales jobs to help you direct your future in sales.
Pharmaceutical Sales
According to Hertz, Pharmaceutical sales is usually detailing to a doctor a pharmaceutical sales product that needs a prescription. Also known as drug detailing, your job as a pharma sales rep is to detail the pharmaceutical indications of a specific drug/medication and hope that the doctor will remember and prescribe your drug to his next patient. In rare cases, you may actually be introducing a new drug therapy altogether with no competitive equivalent.
Youll need to be able to sell the doctor on the drug itself and describe the distinct advantages of using it for specific applications while comparing it to alternatives (competitive drugs, generic drugs, etc.). Ultimately, you are trying to gain a verbal commitment that he will prescribe a product. Technically, you dont make a sale until the doctor prescribes your drug.
Medical Device Sales
Medical device sales are very popular and yet oftentimes misunderstood. For starters, medical device sales involves selling a medical device product that is either used by a physician or the physicians staff during a procedure with a patient and does not require a prescription. Hertz describes the device-selling process to be as sophisticated as selling the doctor a cardiac device bought by a hospital or clinic for his use in surgery or as simple as selling tongue suppressors to him in his office.
Medical devices are products that require a PO (purchase order), price, quantity, and any terms of purchase. Additionally, you dont need to wait and hope for a doctor to write a prescription to officially make a sale; you can leave a doctors office or hospital with a written order, unlike pharmaceutical sales.
Joining the Salesforce
While the individual products may be different, the bottom line is quite similar: to be a successful sales professional, you must be an effective and persuasive communicator, a results-oriented individual, and deeply passionate about the products you provide.
Great pharmaceutical sales jobs and medical device sales jobs are ready for the taking now and if youre ready to break into either sales field, remember that there is definitely more than one way to do so. While having extensive experience in a similar role might make you a lead candidate, other times, it simply takes one contact that can get your foot in the door.
Lastly, work to become a driven, upstart sales rep whos willing to go the extra mile for your customers. Just like Linda Hertz says: Hang in there and keep shaking hands and reaching out to any contacts. After all, that is what sales is about, banging on a lot of doors to get someone to buy or recommend your product. In this case, the product is you!
 

MED:
IS MEDICAL STILL A GOOD CAREER OPTION

Lets begin by understanding the current MBBS admission system in India. India has close to 500 medical colleges. Nearly half of them are run by private organizations. With the current capacity of 55,000 medical seats, India has produced 7 lakhs doctors till now. This information is as per Medical council of India registration records. For 1.3 billion population, India currently has 1 doctor for every 1700 citizens.
Check out worldwide doctor population ratio of all countries pictured in world map here
 
As per World Health Organization recommendation, a country should have a doctor to population ratio of 1:1000. India has set a target to achieve this by the year 2020. What does this mean to us? It means that in another 5 years, India need to produce additional 6 lakhs doctors.  In order to comply with developed countries like US, UK, Germany,etc India would require additional 20 lakhs doctors as doctor to patient ratio in these countries range from 300 to 400. Cuba tops the list with 1 doctor for every 170 people.
Though there is huge demand for doctors, the available medical seat capacity is not sufficient to achieve the target. Indian government understands that this gap cannot be fixed by increasing medical seats in India within this short span of time. So, It encourages students to study MBBS abroad.
MBBS IN PHILIPPINES
Indian students who missed medical seat because of less cutoff can use this opportunity to study medical degree in nearby countries such as Philippines. Why am I recommending Philippines among other countries. Because, it provides best quality education at an affordable cost. In the recent past, many Indian students study MBBS In Philippines mainly because of its best quality education and its international recognition for exams such as USMLE, Medical Council of India Screening Test, etc
Can you believe that you can complete your MBBS degree with one fifth of the cost of India. Most of the parent and students are not aware that medical degree can be completed within 15 lakhs.

MED:
Reasons To Be A Doctor
Edward Chang 
 0 4,766
When you apply to medical school, you have to coherently and effectively answer the question why do you want to become a doctor? in your personal statement. Then, in every interview thereafter, you need to answer the question once again, but this time in front of a panel of interviewers. It is difficult to know which answers admissions committees deem as good and which are deemed as bad. Obviously it is a matter of opinion and everyone has a different combination of reasons to be a doctor. Nevertheless, there is a reason why some people get into medical school and some dont (besides the grades and MCAT of course).
Applicants who effectively demonstrate to admissions committees that they have the proper motivation and skill set to be a good doctor are the ones who are accepted. Thus, here is a list of potential reasons to be a doctor.  If you can only identify with one or two of these reasons, most likely you do not have the right motivation to become a physician.
1. Helping others in an incredibly significant way
Most people value their health above everything else in their lives whether they know it or not. When someone is  sick or injured, his or her normal way of life is disrupted and doctors have the incredible opportunity to restore these peoples lives to normalcy and even save some from death itself. Therefore being a doctor is extremely rewarding.
2. Medicine is fascinating
Becoming a doctor means learning everything there is to know about the human body. The human body itself is an incredible thing to study and medical students and doctors have the opportunity to further examine it with the most innovative technology. From the pumping of the heart to drugs that take away pain to machines that allow you look inside a person, modern medicine remains one of the most fascinating subjects in the world.
||What are medical schools looking for in applicants?||
3. Trust and honor
By the virtue of their title, doctors are trusted with sensitive information that most other people would not have access to. Patients share their deepest concerns with their doctors in hopes of being healed. To be trusted to this extent by anybody is a great honor.
4. Influence and respect
Like it or not, by default, doctors are in a position of power. They are considered the leaders in health care and often have the final say on treatment decisions. When doctors talk, people usually listen. Even outside the work setting, doctors are regarded highly (just think how your impression of someone changes when you find out he or she is a doctor).
||Reasons why you shouldnt become a doctor||
5. Never a dull moment
Physicians interact with different kinds of people with various ailments every day. The variety of experiences guarantees that every day will have some sort of excitement.
||Why did our writer Emily Singer apply to medical school?||
6. Other opportunities
Just because you are a doctor does not mean you have to see patients all day every day. There are numerous opportunities available for MDs and DOs: clinical research, basic science research, journalism, consulting, business ventures, hospital administration, public health, and public policy.
7. Ability to build meaningful relationships
Doctors who have the opportunity to see the same patients over and over again can build meaningful relationships with them.
||Why did our writer Edward Chang apply to medical school?||
8. Job stability
The medical field is not very influenced by the ups and downs of the economy. Doctors are always needed so you will not have to worry about a fluctuating job market as much as most other jobs.
9. High compensation
One can argue that doctors dont make enough money but they still do make a lot of money. The national average salary for a general internist, a field that is on the lower end of the salary spectrum, is still close to $200,000.
10. Requires critical thinking and problem solving
Doctors have to use their intelligence and technical skills to treat patients.  Many doctors enjoy the challenge of having to diagnosing a patient and figuring out the best way to treat them. Many surgeons and other procedure-based doctors love to work with their hands to find and fix problems.


MED:
Top 7 Reasons to Study Medicine Decide what to study
18 Apr 2017
	 Facebook
	 Twitter
	 LinkedIn
	 Google+
Should you study Medicine? There are a lot of reasons why people choose to study Medicine, ranging from personal calling to calculated financial gain. Whether its the first choice or the backup degree option, studying Medicine at an international university is a long-term commitment and it is generally not taken lightly by students.
Here are some of the most important and decisive reasons to undertake the journey to becoming a doctor or a nurse:

Apply to Medical Studies abroad
1. You'll have diverse career opportunities
Often overlooked, this reason is actually  one of the most convincing ones. After graduation, you have  broad range of opportunities for a future job in the field medicine. 
You can choose to work in hospitals, science institutes, or be part of the medical department of some other professional field. There are doctors who are managing healthcare costs in economics sectors or contribute to the legal work intended to verify medical errors and patients' rights. It all starts with choosing the right study path, including degree options such as:
?	Biomedicine;
?	Dentistry;
?	Physiotherapy;
?	Pharmacy;
?	Nursing;
?	Nutrition;
?	Veterinary Medicine.
Do not worry if you do not see yourself as a future paediatrician, surgeon or therapist. You have six years to decide what exactly you are interested in.
2. You'll be working in globally recognised field
All over the world, there is a great uniformity of medical science knowledge and practice. This means that by graduating from a medical college in Europe you can find a job and work in any hospital in South America or anywhere else in the world.  This does not apply to many other disciplines!
Choose a medical degree from international schools worldwide:
?	Medicine degrees in Germany;
?	Medicine degrees in the United States;
?	Medicine degrees in the UK;
?	Medicine degrees in Ireland;
?	Medicine degrees in Australia;
?	Medicine degrees in Canada;
?	Medicine degrees in the Netherlands.
3. You can help people directly and make them happier
Most doctors would say that there is no greater joy than the one you feel when you manage to help a very sick patient or when you are part of a group of scientists who discover a new medicine for a certain disease. The ability to directly help the healing process is also a continuous challenge and sometimes it is not easy to cope with it. For this reason, your medical education will prepare you to handle the difficult moments and land on your feet in 99% of the cases.

4. You are greatly needed on the job market
The world needs more doctors. The situation in Europe is reasonable compared to some other continents like Asia or Africa. There are also differences in the need for doctors in different European countries. 
A lot of EU countries that have forbidden or restricted employment of foreign citizens do not apply this decision to doctors. In most cases, medicine students get a job immediately after they graduate. Certain specialisations are becoming insufficient locally and globally, such as paediatricians, oncologists, immunologists and gynaecologists.
5. You'll have a stable job and safe career
Another pertinent reason to study Medicine is a certain stability upon graduation. This reason is becoming even more prominent in countries still coping with recession and difficulties for young people to find a job. Not to mention that students are attracted to doctors salaries which start at 100,000 USD/year in EU countries and 160,000 USD/year in the US.
But this decision shouldnt be taken lightly, given that it is not just a job, but rather a lengthy career. Equally rewarding careers are available if you study disciplines like:  
?	Public health;
?	Nursing;
?	Dentistry;
?	Biomedical engineering.

6. You can bring your contribution through research findings
The end of medical studies does not mean the end of learning. Quite the opposite, with your college providing you with basics for further knowledge and skill development. Summits and seminars are often organized in exotic locations in order to attract as many doctors as possible.
 A lot of students see this situation as the significant difference in comparison to other study fields and, for this, they point out medicine as a unique example of constant professional perfecting. You can even find international Masters in Medicine focused primarily on research. Here are some examples: 
?	M.Res. in Medical Science at University of Tasmania, Australia;
?	M.Res.in Clinical Research at Erasmus University Rotterdam, Netherlands;
?	M.Res in Health Science at the University of Exeter, UK.
7. You'll have a great social status 
Doctors are seen as a symbol of dignity, responsibility and service towards the community. Members of every local community are aware of the hard work and sacrifices that the medical professional goes through to achieve and maintain this job at an efficient level.
 Therefore, their positions and opinions relating to the welfare of the community are taken into serious consideration, as well as their example in behaviour and moral standing. This creates additional responsibility for doctors but shows that medical professionals are natural leaders in their cities and neighbourhoods.


MED;
10 reasons why being a doctor is a privilege
DADS DOLLARS DEBTS, MD | FINANCE | AUGUST 3, 2017
421SHARES

I feel privileged to be practicing medicine. Many people consider doctor careers and imagine how great it may be. Is it the right thing for you? Yes there are days of frustration, exhaustion, and utter defeat, but at the end of the day I home and know that I helped at least one person if not two from the 16 I meet.
The fact that I alleviated one individuals anxiety or provided reassurance that they will be okay is a good feeling and one that I must remind myself of. That I am able to work with a team of individuals from medical assistants to nurses and techs to provide care and the fact that I am not stuck behind a desk all day despite computers and electronic medical records encroaching more and more into our lives (one recent study in the Annals of Internal Medicine described two hours of computer time for every one hour of physician interaction time. And despite more focus on parameters such as that may or may not have anything to do with actual health outcomes.
It is easy to forget the effort it takes to become a physician. Once in practice, it is easy to get burned out. If I applied today for medical school I may not be successful with current acceptance rates per US News are 6.9 percent nationally in 2015. This is despite a expected shortage of between 46,000 to 90,000 physicians in 2025 which blows my mind because there is already a lot of discussion regarding physician burnout  a topic I will not be covering that here today  but will likely be made worse by a physician shortage. OK, so before I digress more, I mean to discuss why I am privileged to be a physician and why we as a profession can never forget these things despite all the BS that has entered our field.
1. I make a difference. Day in and day out, someone somewhere is benefiting from your knowledge and expertise. I am able to ease someones mind or mend a broken heart. I can truly go home and know I made a difference that day.
2. People/teamwork. There are lots of jobs that require team cooperation to get through the day. If you like that sort of thing, then being a doctor is a good gig. I am an extrovert and love people. Throughout my day I coordinate with nurses, MAs, care coordinators, social workers, etc. to improve the care of our patients. Additionally, the patient is part of the team, and I get to meet interesting people from all walks of life and see how differently people live and experience this world from my own perspective.
3. My intent is always for good. In some professions, there are winners and losers. For instance, in the court of law, one lawyer wins, and the other loses. Or in business, one party may try to negotiate more and thereby taking money or services from the other person at a discount. In my world, there is no conflict of interest  unless drug companies, etc. get in the way. My intent for the patient/person is always the same as it would be for my family. While the fee for service may confuse this a little for some practices, my current practice model completely gets rid of this.
4. I can live anywhere. There are not many professions that have this, particularly high paying ones. As a doctor, you can move to anywhere in the country if you can find a job. Plus if you live in the country you may actually earn more. This is similar to other trades like plumbers, electricians, etc. but is rare for professionals such as business executives, bankers, etc. For those jobs, you have to move to the centers of power and movement.
Now granted, there are some exceptions to this rule if you are a physician too. If you are a pediatric cardiologist or otherwise super sub-specialized, then you need a bigger city and have fewer job options (try getting a job as an electrophysiologist right now). Also if you are set on doing academics options will be limited. If, however, you want to be a generalist of sorts (i.e. general cardiology) then you have way more options. This is the best part of our job.
5. Job security. There are not many more secure jobs that you can do well into your 70s (and even 80s to some capacity) if you want.
6. Pay. Being a physician does bring in a nice take home salary. Now granted most of us have between 100K to 400K in debt (I am hovering at 177K), when you get out you can expect to make a salary of $150 to $500 K annually. There are not many tech jobs that will pay you over a $100K.
7. No physical labor. This is specialty dependent. For instance, interventional radiologist, cardiologist and orthopedist all wear lead that can lead to back problems later in life. For most of us, however, our jobs are not physically difficult. Now you may argue that sitting in front of a computer 8 hours a day is tough, and I wont disagree. You, however, are not working construction or playing football. There is a reason a football player retires in their 30s just as our careers are beginning.
8. Professional/community esteem. This is not one of my top reasons to be a doctor but for others it is important. The community still holds being a doctor as a noble professional, and most people respect the position. There are few negative preconceived notions about doctors (except for being rich).
9. Continued growth. As a doctor, there is always room for growth. You can take up more CME, continue reading journals, even go back and do another fellowship in your field if you want. If there is a will, there is a way.
10. Other opportunities. This is not one I have embarked on yet, but there are opportunities outside of seeing patients to make a living. There are plenty of jobs MDs can do from research to consulting for companies to pharmaceutical jobs, etc. Whatever you can think of, there is likely a way to use your medical degree to achieve it. If you really dont like medicine, then you can leverage the high income to earn and save like crazy and retire within 10 years.


MED:
Top 10 Reasons to Become a Doctor

 

Soteris Phoraris
 Share
 Tweet
 Share
+

Sure you could become a lawyer and make the same amount of money, but you wouldnt be in everyday danger of being sprayed with bodily fluids. Also, if you have a Messiah Complex, what better place to play God than in the ER?  As seen in series such as Scrubs, E.R., House and Greys Anatomy, all hospital staff are crazy hot! So get your Doctor McDreamy-butt on the train to Med School because here are 10 reasons why its awesome to be a doctor.
1. Everyone is hot
Like I said above and just as popular culture has reiterated time and time again, health care professionals are basically models with brains and a medical degree. Dont believe me? Did you see how many sexy nurse costumes were available in Halloween stores this year? Thats got to be base on something right?
2. Doctors make tons of money
It is well established that doctors make as much coin as a platinum-chain-wearing-making-it-rain hip-hop artist. Also, if T.V. is to be believed, even if they have coitus under a mans stretcher that is going into anaphylactic shock, they are never sued for malpractice.

3. Doctors can be complete twerps and yet people still love them
I have a PHD in House studies. Thats not the study of houses but of the medical show House. I have learned in my multi-year education in House-Medicine (same as above) that no matter how anti-socially abrasive you are, if you finally save the patient everyone will love you.
4. Youre basically a superhero
Yes! How many professions actually bring people back from the dead? Your silence confirms agreement with my statement. Yes, only doctors save lives.
5. Even if they specialized in another field of medicine theyre experts in everything.
Any doctor can diagnose anything; they go to school for like twenty years dont they?
6. Being a doctor is a great excuse to get out of everything
Doctors are always on call. It doesnt matter if youre a podiatrist or a gastroenterologist. If youre on an awkward date, at an uncomfortable family gathering or the signing of your divorce papers you can jump up and say: I am needed elsewhere! The best part is that nobody will argue your need to leave!
7. Props!
Doctors have tons of things to facilitate looking cool. Form fitting scrubs (the green robes doctors wear) show off that you havent been skipping leg day at the gym. You can use those rolling I.V. hangers to nonchalantly lean on and look casual. Finally, everyone knows that a stethascope hung around your neck increases sex appeal by 10 points!
8. Being able to say STAT without sounding like a douche
Youll be immune to douchiness when using terms such as code-red, code-blue, stat and give me 30mm of adrenaline. You can even use them outside the workspace; if you go to the bar for example tell the bartender that you need an extra dirty martini stat. Hell recognize the doctor-ese and booze you up quick. Doc-lingo can also be use safely as a pick-up line. Find the attractive guy or gal youd like to meet, walk up to them and say: You are causing me acute heart palpitations, give me 30ccs of number stat!
9. Being a medical professional gives unlimited access to pharmaceuticals
When you become a Medical professional youll have virtually unending amounts and access to medical grade pharmaceuticals. You have access to Hunter S. Thompson level of a whole galaxy of multi-colored uppers, downers, screamers, laughers. Look out for those bats.
10. You are entitled to use all Doctor puns as a MD
You will be able to go by Doctor Feelgood, Doctor Love, Doctor doctor and Doctor Frankenstein. Walk up to your fellow medical professional and say Whats up doc? which is always novel and worth a chuckle.
 


MED:
Medical devices and pharmaceuticals: Two different worlds in one health setting
While the medical technology and pharmaceutical industries are both essential to health, it is important to acknowledge that the two are extremely different. Medical devices work only if they are used correctly. Their effectiveness relies on the skills and experience of the physician using them, the quality of the hospital, and many other factors. Pharmaceuticals are chemical in nature and are designed to actively interact with the bodys metabolic or immune system. Pharmaceuticals either work or they do not. Effectiveness is relatively straightforward to prove.
Devices are by-and-large mechanical in nature and have an inert effect on the human body. Pharmaceuticals are chemical in nature and are designed to actively interact with the bodys metabolic or immune system. Therefore the risks to the body from pharmaceuticals are of a different order and magnitude than the risks to the body from medical devices.
There is also a vast difference in numbers and uses. More than 500,000 different types of medical devices are produced globally  compared to 20,000 medicinal products - each in service of vastly diverse health objectives.  Medical devices range from simple and everyday consumer products such as spectacles, dentures and sticking-plasters, to incontinence and ostomy care products, syringes and bandages, to hip implants, MRI and X-Ray equipment, and pacemakers.  The technologies concerned also extend far beyond those of pharmaceutical science to include materials science, bioengineering, engineering, electronics, software, information and communication technology, nuclear, aerospace, plastics technology, surface technology and many more which are applied across all areas of clinical practice and homecare.
Research and development models also vary greatly between the two industries. Driven by technology, device improvements are typically available to users and patients within 18-24 months of previous iterations. Medicinal products on the other hand, are pharmaceutically based and tend to have longer product lifecycles with improvements measured in decades.
Correcting misconceptions
Much like pharmaceuticals, medical technology is a unique industry which requires its own unique regulatory system. The revised MDD must consider the unique characteristics of the industry while avoiding misconceptions and comparisons with pharmaceuticals.
One frequently heard misconception centres on the difference in availability of clinical evidence for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including (inaccurate) claims that no clinical data exists for medical devices. Clinical data and evaluation of that clinical data is a clearly and explicitly defined legal requirement for medical devices. In particular, for both implantable devices and high risk devices, the clinical evaluation must be based on data obtained from clinical investigations unless it is justified to rely on existing clinical data.
When it comes to requiring the same type of clinical data for devices as for drugs, it is worth highlighting that unlike in pharmaceuticals, randomized clinical trials are not the gold standard on how to assess effectiveness and safety in medical devices because:
 
	Most devices cannot be evaluated with randomised clinical trials as it is hard to blind and randomise devices due to strong ethical and practical issues in the choice of the comparator (e.g. what would have been a comparator for an implantable cardiac defibrillator?  How would one implant a placebo hip?).
	Device impact depends heavily on clinician training and experience, patient selection and the care delivery setting. This varies per doctor, hospital and country and is thus nearly impossible to predict with any precision. We therefore believe that real world data from observational studies performed under routine conditions are equally important (structured post market surveillance).
In summary, medical technologies are part of the whole healthcare delivery system and their efficacy relies on the skills and experience of the physician, the quality of the hospital, and many other factors (contrary to pharmaceuticals).
Getting regulation right
In its resolution of 13 June 2012, the European Parliament called for - although with a thin majority - a Pre-Market Authorisation (PMA) system for medical devices, as is the case for pharmaceuticals. Adopting a pharma-like system for devices would not address the different nature and innovation cycles of medical technologies. Moreover, it would not lead to an increase in patient safety, but may cause years of delay in the availability of medical technology solutions to European citizens and a loss of European innovation competitiveness compared with other regions.
Today, Europe already has a pre-market approval mechanism in place for high-risk devices which has proven to deliver a high level of safety and provides European citizens with access to innovation 2-3 years before their US counterparts. Indeed, the procedure has been part of European legislation since 1993( see Directive 93/42/EEC)
whereas, for devices falling within Classes IIb and III which constitute a high risk potential, inspection by a notified body is required with regard to the design and manufacture of the devices; whereas Class III is set aside for the most critical devices for which explicit prior authorisation with regard to conformity is required for them to be placed on the market;
Commissioner Dalli rejected the call for PMA and put forward a pre-market scrutiny mechanism for the quality of Notified Body assessments for high risk devices. Industry does not support such a mechanism as you would achieve everything that the scrutiny is trying to achieve if you were to properly implement the current regulatory system. Hence, in an ideal implementation a scrutiny mechanism is not needed.


MED:
What is the difference between Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry ?
Ok this question is primarily directed to course structures at the graduate level (MSc). What clearly defines the boundaries between these two topics? Goals and aims of each and what content would you expect to be included in both course structures and what would be exclusive to each?
Medicinal Chemistry
Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Applied Organic Chemistry
Organic Chemistry
Share 
Popular Answers (2)
Deepak Kumar Semwal
Added an answer
Although, nowadays both the branches of chemistry are intermixed and very difficult to differentiate, but in my opinion "Medicinal chemistry deals with the study of synthesis, identification and development of chemical entities those having therapeutic uses whereas the Pharmaceutical Chemistry deals with the study of ne
 Read more
Deleted profile
Added an answer
Hi all ,
in my opinion pharmaceutical chemistry is a broader field which includes organic, inorganic chemistry and analytical chemistry related to pharmaceuticals, where me
 Read more
	4 Recommendations

6 years ago
Sathisha A D Anekere
Added an answer
Actually saying both are same, but in perticular, pharmaceutical chemistry concentrates on formulations and stability studies of the product.in medicinal 
Selcia
Medicinal chemistry is the science of optimizing the totality of properties that make a successful drug. This activity includes optimizing the potency as measured in the chosen test systems as well as pharmacokinetic properties and, to some extent, side effect liabilities. The role of medicinal chemistry changes along the value chain
 Read more
	1 Recommendation

6 years ago
Poppy Das
VIT University
I feel medicinal chemistry is a narrower field than pharmaceutical chemistry. Medicinal chemistry deals with the synthesis, chemical and physical properties of the drugs, SAR studies of the drugs, drugs compatibility with the body and its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties. While pharmaceutical chemistr
 Read more
	6 Recommendations
6 years ago
Milan Remko
Added an answer
There is an official definition of Medicinal chemistry by IUPAC.
Medicinal chemistry is a chemistry-based discipline, also involving aspects of biological, medical and pharmaceutical sciences. It is concerned with the invention,
 Read more
	11 Recommendations

6 years ago
Mian Hasnain Nawaz
COMSATS University Islamabad
In this era of interdisciplinary based studies they are one and the same thing, however to me, medicinal chemistry is supposed to discuss mainly the invention and discovery of drugs, while pharmaceutical chemistry covers the implementation and mechanismic study of drugs.
	3 Recommendations

6 years ago
Muchtaridi Muchtaridi
Universitas Padjadjaran
medicinal chemistry is multidisciplinary field including Pharm. Chemistry, Pharmacology-Pharmcotherapy, Biotech and so on. However, this field is usually under Pharm. Chem.
	1 Recommendation

6 years ago
Sankarprasad Bhuniya
Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham
Medicinal chemistry consist of two parts namely, drug design and synthesis. On the other hand in pharmaceutical chemistry, mostly study on drug uses, how drug gets metabolites, its kinetics, and any side effect is there or not.
	4 Recommendations
6 years ago
Martin Dolezal
Charles University in Prague
Medicinal chemistry = pharmaceutical chemistry
	1 Recommendation
6 years ago
Yalagala Ravi shekar
Brock University
Pharmaceutical chemistry is a part of medicinal chemistry
	2 Recommendations

4 years ago
Joo Paulo dos Santos Fernandes
Universidade Federal de So Paulo
In my opinion, these concepts are slightly differents. Pharmaceutical Chemistry is a specific area of medicinal chemistry, where the knowledge about the molecular aspects of pharmacology is focused on patient, i.e. is medicinal chemistry applied to pharmacotherapy.
 Read more

3 years ago
Ramalingam Peraman
Added an answer
Pharmaceutical chemistry is a broad include everything, belongs to the history of chemical agents intended to use as pharmaceuticals, like may be drug, or additives or diagnostics etc. and it deals more of synthetic drug chemistry, and less of chemistry of biological interactions, Whereas medicinal chemistry deals more focus
 Read more
	1 Recommendation

3 years ago
Kishor S Jain
Added an answer
Pharmaceutical Chemistry is a branch of chemistry that deals with the chemical, biochemical and pharmacological aspects of drugs. It includes synthesis/isolation, identification, structural elucidation, structural modification, structural activity relationship (SAR) studies, study of the chemical characteristics, biochemical chang
 Read more
	2 Recommendations


MED:
MEDICAL DEVICES VS PHARMACEUTICALS  A BRIEF GUIDE TO THE DIFFERENCES

The global medical device market is predicted to reach $440 billion by 2018, growing at a rate of about 4.4 per cent per year. Compare this with the anticipated growth of the prescription drug market  an annual rate of 2.5 per cent  and you can see why job hunters are increasingly looking to the device makers to realise their career aspirations.
So significant is this trend, that its worthwhile looking at the differences between the two markets. Candidates considering a move out of pharmaceuticals and into the medical devices industry should be clear on the following distinctions:
 
 
1. Medical devices are mechanical, rather than chemical
Medical devices are based on biomedical engineering and, as a general rule, either permanently or temporarily replace a body function. At the soft end, they are simple, everyday products like sticking plasters or spectacles; at the sharp end, they might be sophisticated surgical supplies, like cardiac stents or joint prostheses. By contrast, pharmaceuticals are medicines, designed to engage the bodys chemistry.
2. Medical devices have different efficacy dynamics to pharmaceuticals
The efficacy of a medicine is simpler to demonstrate than for a medical device, because it is determined by the pharmacodynamics of its active ingredient. The effectiveness of a medical device depends upon many more variables  the care setting, individual patient characteristics and the skills and experience of the clinician applying the device.
3. Research and development (R&D) models are different
Most medical devices cannot be evaluated using randomised clinical trials due to ethical and practical issues in the choice of comparator  for example, what would be an ethical comparator for a cardiac pacemaker? Medical devices are, nonetheless, evaluated for efficacy and safety, based on data acquired from clinical investigations.
4. Medical devices have regulatory systems based on shorter product life cycles
Like pharmaceuticals, the medical device industry has its own regulatory systems. Medical devices have shorter product life cycles, since technical improvements are typically available within two years of a previous iteration, whereas improvements in medicines are more likely to take decades. Trying to apply the same regulations to medical devices as to pharmaceuticals would therefore delay access to vital medical resources and procedures without increasing patient safety.
5. Sales and marketing models differ
In pharmaceuticals, the prescribing doctor is the primary target of sales and marketing activities. In medical devices, there are many more stakeholders who can influence the adoption and use of a device, including hospital managers, nurses and case workers. Medical devices therefore have greater emphasis on training, education, service and maintenance, as well as distribution, which greatly impacts their business models.
Summing up
All of these differences are bound to influence the job descriptions, lifestyle factors and remuneration packages associated with positions at every level of medical device organisations. The differences are especially pronounced at the sales representative level, where the majority of opportunities arise.
Medical device recruitment is a specialist area and Hays Consultant, Anna Wysocka, has eight years experience specifically in placing candidates within the medical devices industry. Next blog, we share her insights and bring you a checklist of points to consider before attempting to move from pharmaceuticals in this direction.


MED:
How pharmaceutical marketing differs from Other (FMCG) marketing?
	Published on November 28, 2015

Karumuri Venkatesh
FollowKarumuri Venkatesh
National Head-Pharma & Health care
Pharmaceutical Marketing	Other Marketing FMCG
It is the field of science which links the health sciences to ensure safe and effective medicinal products to the patients.	Other kind of marketing deals with consumer day to day routines (eg: Toothpaste, home appliances etc)
It is highly regulated market. Regulated by national regulatory laws and authority in order to ensure specified quality & standards of particular products (eg: FDA, GMP etc)	These are not regulated. There are no regulation apply in manufacturing, supply or use of the products
Pharmaceutical goods are sold only on retail drug stores (Pharmacy ) by a qualified registered pharmacist as prescribed by the Doctor	Available on the every general stores and shops can be sold purchased by any consumer without any interference of any authority
The concept of Consumer and customer is different, In case of Prescription drugs the doctors are the actual customer and the patient is consumer as the sale of drug is affected only by the prescription of doctors. In OTC (Non prescription) drug the patient is the customer as there is no prescription from the doctor	The buyer has freedom to purchase and to consume the product. There is no difference between customer and consumer.
Price of the Pharmaceutical products are regulated by NPPA(National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority) and DPCO (Drug Price Control Order)	No Price regulation
The promotion cannot be done on social media like TV, Radio and public places. It is carried through Direct marketing by the medical Reps to the Doctors. But OTC products can be advertised on social media.
 
 
Regards K.Venkatesh	No regulation of advertisement, But some basic guidelines should be followed as per the National Advertisement Act.


MED:
What is Pharmaceutical Medicine?

Careers in Pharmaceutical Medicine
Read more...
Pharmaceutical medicine is the medical scientific discipline concerned with the discovery, development, evaluation, registration, monitoring and medical aspects of marketing of medicines for the benefit of patients and the health of the community.
At core of the discipline is the clinical testing of medicines, translation of pharmaceutical drug research into new medicines, safety and well-being of research participants in clinical trials, and understanding the safety profile of medicines and their benefit-risk balance.
In addition to expertise in the science of drug development pharmaceutical physicians need a thorough understanding of pharmacoeconomics, medical aspects of the marketing of medicines, business administration and the social impact of healthcare on patients and public health.
Pharmaceutical physicians work in the pharmaceutical industry, drug regulatory authorities and contract research organisations, but have a close affinity with their medical colleagues in primary and secondary health care and at universities.

International Pharmaceutical Medicine
Developing new medicines and making them available for patients is an international endeavour, and pharmaceutical medicine is a global discipline, demanding good communication with other pharmaceutical specialists, companies and regulatory bodies across the world. Pharmaceutical physicians work within legal and regulatory frameworks, and within ethical and professional codes of medical practice and governance.
A large number of the Faculty's members work abroad and a lot of those who don't will still spend a lot of their time travelling.
Pharmaceutical Medicine as a medical specialty
Pharmaceutical medicine has been recognised as a full medical specialty since 2002. There are currently around 140 doctors undergoing training (PMST) in the discipline.
As a postgraduate medical discipline, pharmaceutical medicine has a recognised international syllabus, training courses with examinations and qualifications, its own research methodologies, professional bodies and academic societies, journals and texts, and embraces new technologies and regulations in pursuit of proof of efficacy, safety and effectiveness of medicines.


MED:
Understanding Pharmaceutical Research Studies
Medical researchers are constantly looking for new or better ways to treat illness or disease. If they discover something that may be helpful, it cannot be put into general use until years of careful testing has been done. Research studies are what link medical research to a drug becoming available to physicians and patients. Research studies may also be called clinical trials, drug trials or drug studies.
What are Research Studies?
	Research studies are designed to test the effect of a medication or treatment in a group of volunteers, measure a drugs ability to treat the medical condition, monitor the drugs safety, and possible side effects.
	Pharmaceutical companies or other health organizations may sponsor research studies by providing funding and designing the protocol, which is a set of detailed guidelines. A study that is conducted at several different locations is called a multi-center study.
	Trained doctors, nurses and researchers conduct research studies. The study coordinator is in charge of the day-to-day running of the study. The principal investigator (usually a physician) has overall responsibility for carrying out the protocol.
How Are Study Subjects Rights and Safety Protected?
	The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the government agency that is responsible for research studies. It regulates the conduct of research studies, enforces the laws on the use of drugs, and must approve all new drugs before they are available to the general public.
	In every university or medical center, the Institutional Review Board (IRB) reviews any study that may be done in that location. The IRB is composed of physicians and lay people. They review the study protocol to make sure patients rights are protected and that there are no unnecessary risks in the study. Any physician awarded a research study must get approval from the IRB before beginning the study.
	Participants are required to sign an informed consent form, which is also signed by the investigator (the doctor conducting the study). It details the nature of the study, the risks involved and what will happen throughout the study. It informs study subjects that they have a right to leave the study at any time and who to call if they have questions. Finally, since the patient is under a doctors supervision, the same laws and ethics that normally regulate the medical profession protect the study subject.
What Are the Different Types of Pharmaceutical Research Studies?
There are three phases, or steps, in doing research studies. All three of these steps must be successfully completed and all results known before a new drug can be approved for public use.
	Phase I studies are done on healthy volunteers who agree to take the study drug to help the doctors determine how safe the drug is and if there are any side effects. Studies are also done to determine how the drug is absorbed, metabolized and excreted. Usually a small number of subjects (20-100) participate in Phase I studies. Approximately 70% of new drugs will pass this phase.
	Phase II studies measure the effect of the new drug in patients with the disease or disorder to be treated. The main purpose is to determine safety and effectiveness of the new drug. Usually several hundred patients participate. These studies are usually Double-blinded, randomized and controlled. In controlled studies, the effect of the active drug is compared to the effect of a placebo (inactive or sugar pill). In double blinded studies neither the investigator nor the study subject knows who is getting active drug and who is receiving placebo medication. One third of studied drugs complete both Phase I and II.
	Phase III studies also use patients with the disorder to be treated by the new drug. These studies are done to gain a more thorough understanding of the effectiveness, benefits and side effects of the study drug. These studies use a large numbers of subjects, several hundred to several thousand. Of the new drugs that enter Phase III studies, 70 to 90% of drugs successfully complete this phase. If the results show a good effect and safety profile, the company will submit the data and request FDA approval for marketing the drug.
Who Is Eligible to Be in a Research Study?
Almost anyone can be in some type of research study. Each study has certain requirements about health, medications or age depending on what specific questions are being asked. You must meet the requirements of a particular study to be an eligible volunteer
What Is Involved in Participating in a Research Study?
	Participating in a research study is much like a regular visit to a clinic or doctors office, but with even greater personal attention. The study subject may be referred by their doctor or may have heard about the study elsewhere.
	Preliminary screening for the study is usually done over the phone. Basic criteria of age, symptoms, and medical history are reviewed and the details of the study are discussed. If the caller seems to qualify for the study and is interested, they are asked to come in for the initial, or screening, visit.
	The screening visit is done in the a clinic, office or hospital. After reviewing the information gathered over the phone, the informed consent form is signed by the subject and the supervising physician. A copy is given to the subject. A physical exam, blood, and other tests may be done. Following this, in most studies, there is a period, usually a few weeks, where baseline information is collected, for example severity and frequency of symptoms.
	At the end of the screening period the patient returns to the clinic for the randomization visit. If the patients baseline information shows that they qualify for the study, they are then randomized (usually by computer) to receive placebo or active drug.
	During the treatment period the subjects are taking the study medication on a regular basis, and recording their symptoms. There are regular visits with the study coordinator during the treatment period. At the end of the treatment period, medication use and symptoms are reviewed. Possible side effects from the study medication are recorded. After completion of the treatment period, many studies have a follow up period to assess how symptoms and possible side effects have changed. There may be one additional visit or a telephone call to assess how the subject has been doing since stopping the study drug.
What Are the Risks of Participating in a Study?
Risks vary from study to study. Researchers expect certain results but since the treatment is new and is still being studied it is impossible to say exactly what the risks may be. If a side effect or adverse event does occur, it is generally temporary and will go away as soon as the treatment is stopped.
Why Think About Participating in a Research Study
	To help yourself, as you might have a beneficial effect from the study drug.
	You will receive a great deal of personal medical attention generally at no cost to you.
	To help others, as a great deal of information is gathered during studies, making new treatments available.
Deciding to Participate in a Research Study
	Think it over carefully, weigh possible benefits against risks.
	Make sure all your questions are answered by the study personnel.
	Discuss the study with your own doctor to see what their feelings may be about it.
	If you decide to enter a study, do not do so just out of curiosity. It is important to make a commitment to try to finish the study, unless you develop serious problems.
	Remember participation in a research study is always voluntary.
	You may refuse to participate, or withdraw your consent at any time, and for any reason, without jeopardizing your future care at this institution or your relationship with your doctor.
	If you are a patient with an illness, you do not have to participate in research in order to receive treatment.


MED:

	Search
	
My Cart

	Sign in
SKIP MAIN NAVIGATION
	JOURNALS
	BOOKS
	ABOUT US
	CONTACT USJOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS RESEARCHVOL. 3, NO. 3EDITORIAL
Medical devices are different to pharmaceuticals in the Health Technology Assessment process
Michael Ferguson
Published Online:27 Jun 2014https://doi.org/10.2217/cer.14.17
	View Article
	Tools
	Share

Keywords:
	evidence development
	health policy
	Health Technology Assessment
	medical device
	Figures
	References
	Related
	Details
	

Vol. 3, No. 3
________________________________________
Metrics
Downloaded 57 times
________________________________________
History
Published online 27 June 2014
Published in print May 2014
________________________________________
Information
 Future Medicine Ltd
________________________________________
Keywords
o	evidence development
o	health policy
o	Health Technology Assessment
o	medical device
________________________________________
Financial & competing interests disclosure
The author is employed by Boston Scientific and receives salary from and holds equity interest in Boston Scientific. The author has no other relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.
No writing assistance was utilized in the production of this manuscript.
________________________________________
back
We use cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to browse this site, you accept our cookie policy.

	
 
	
 
	
 
	
Future Medicine Ltd, Unitec House, 2 Albert Place, London, N3 1QB, UK 
+44 (0)20 8371 6090
Information
	For Authors
	For Reviewers
	For Librarians
	For Advertisers
	Publishing Solutions
Help & About Us
	News
	Help
	About Us
	Contact Us
Links & Resources
	Catalogue
	Submit an Article
	Reprints and Permissions
	Pay Your Invoice
	Terms and conditions
 
	Privacy policy
 2018 Future Science Group
 


MED:
How pharma can win in a digital world
By David Champagne, Amy Hung, and Olivier Leclerc
How pharma can win in a digital world
Article Actions
	Share this article on LinkedIn
	Share this article on Twitter
	Share this article on Facebook
	Email this article
	Print this article
	Download this article
The digital revolution is well under way for pharma companies. We spoke with 20 leading executives to find out how they copeand what they do to stay ahead.
The digital revolution continues to transform healthcare fundamentally, and many people believe that a tipping point is finally within reach. In 2014, digital health investments topped $6.5 billion, compared with $2.9 billion a year earlier.1
The critical question now for pharmaceutical companies is how to stay ahead of these changes. To answer it, we sought to learn the trends and implications of digital health by interviewing 20 thought leaders across a variety of segments, including analytics, biotech, data, pharma, providers, technology, and venture capital. The consensus is that as healthcare continues to digitize, pharma companies must transform themselves in basic ways to stay competitive. Successful ones will rethink their business and operating models, transform their cultures and capabilities, and adopt a new, longer-term mind-set that fosters innovation and bold strategic moves.2 These conclusions stem from three important themes that we took away from our conversations:
1.	Dramatic changes in the traditional roles and dynamics of healthcare stakeholders have fundamental implications for pharma companies.
2.	It is time to reimagine them as solutions companies, not asset companies.
3.	The technology is ready, but pharma companies must change if they are going to enable and harness it more successfully.
These themes strongly suggest that success in the new digital environment will require three big shifts: forging ahead beyond the pack mentality and embracing experimentation and risk taking, developing a collaborative culture and challenging barriers to sharing, and reinventing companies by building capabilities beyond traditional healthcare and updating the operating model.
Emerging themes
Dramatic changes in the traditional roles and dynamics of healthcare stakeholders have basic implications for pharma companies. The digital revolution has spawned a consumer revolution symbolized by an increasing demand for connectedness and information. Consumers with new technology tools are becoming more active and self-directive, which changes their interactions with providers, payors, and pharma companies. As a result, new and unfamiliar forms of behavior will fundamentally affect the pharmaceutical business:
	Individuals are starting to control their own health treatments. Patients are becoming more than just passive recipients of therapies. Healthcare will be driven much more by consumers than physicians, with patients increasingly coming to their doctors with more information, parameters they measured at home, and an informed opinion about how they should be treated, says Dr. Bertalan Mesko, medical futurist and author of My Health: Upgraded (Webicina, September 2015) and The Guide to the Future of Medicine (Webicina, 2014). Dan Goldsmith, the chief strategy officer of Veeva Systems, a cloud-based life-science business-solutions company, takes the idea further. In the next three to five years, Goldsmith says, instead of patients just being informed and more inquisitive, they will be actively designing the therapeutic and treatment approaches for themselves with their physicians.
As patients assume greater control over their own health, including the therapeutics they take, pharma companies must recognize this new decision-making power and develop better ways to engage them. Thats not easy. Li Ma, vice president of strategy and investment at Alibaba Health Information Technology, says that many pharmacos are trying to engage patients. But it is difficult because they often dont know exactly who their patients are and also have a hard time determining exactly what engagement model resonates with their patients.
Some pharma companies already recognize the growing importance of connecting with patients and are doing something about it. As the customer-experience director at one top pharma company says, We use different approaches, depending on the target audience, to reach patients across a number of channels that relate specifically to their preferences. We observe patient behavior via online communities, participate in dialogues on research communities, have in-home visits, observe patientphysician interactions, and use quantitative methods to analyze trends and adjust content as needed to drive better engagement.
If pharma companies want to go beyond engagement and truly encourage changes in health behavior, they will need to create different kinds of solutions. Although many solutions, particularly apps, have been developed in the past few years, not all can be adopted. As Dr. Todd Johnson, the CEO of Noble.MD, puts it: Apps that face the patient but are designed to solve pharma-company business needs should never exist. Conversely, the market desperately needs apps that focus on patient and/or provider needsreal needs with a measurable impact on health quality and cost. If those apps also meet business needsas a secondary or tertiary outcomethey have a chance of being adopted.
	The clinical environment will change fundamentally. As consumers become more engaged and care environments more complex, physicians will need new skills and tools. How doctors spend their time will change dramatically, says Vinod Khosla, founding CEO of Sun Microsystems and founder of Khosla Ventures. They will shift to spending a smaller proportion of it ordering diagnostics and interpreting results, and much more on the social elements of healthcarehelping patients and families think through treatment options.
Physicians will also have to integrate increasingly massive quantities of traditional and nontraditional health datafor example, hundreds of fragmented electronic health records, as well as data from thousands of wearable devices and other quantified self technologies. This advance is crucial because wearable devices that today are still in the more recreational-grade state are changing incredibly rapidly into research-grade and, ultimately, clinical-grade tools, notes Dr. Eric Schadt, founding director of Icahn Institute at Mount Sinai.
In the near future, physicians may receive a constant, daily stream of data from some patients. The Diovan hypertension pill, with the embedded Proteus chip, is already in trials, with stellar patient-compliance results.3The chip records the time when the patient takes a pill and transmits this information from inside the body to a patch the patient wears. (The patch also captures other physiological data.) This information can be shared with a smartphone, a laptop, and the cloud, so the patient and provider can access it. Such developments have prompted Dr. Krishna Yeshwant, general partner at Google Ventures, to conclude that physicians need to operate in a more complex environment with an ever-growing range of tools. Physicians need a package of solutions to navigate this environment.
	Patients brand loyalty dwindles as cost consciousness rises. People are now much less loyal to brands and companiesboth their insurance companies and the pharma companies that make their medicines. The average tenure for a member to be on an individual insurance plan is now something like two to three years, says Sanjay Mathur, CEO of Silicon Valley Data Science. The reasons vary, from more frequent job switching to employers that adopt new plans to cut costs, he notes. In the future, no one will care what brand of drug they will take. And with device, behavior, and health-proxy data available, their method of selecting drugs will change dramatically. The increased cost consciousness of patients exacerbates this tendency: they compare what they would pay for different plans and the efficacy and price points of different treatments.
	Pharma companies will lose exclusive control over their value stories. As the lines among payors, providers, and pharma companies blur, carefully controlled trial data will no longer be the sole source of outcome data. The dynamics between players are evolving: payors are expanding into areas that providers and pharma companies traditionally owned (for example, payors are in some cases excluding drugs completely from their formularies). With health data becoming more readily available in a more digestible form, payors and providers alike will have more information to link drugs to outcomes and inform value-based pricing, says Amy Abernethy, MD and PhD, the chief medical officer and senior vice president of oncology at Flatiron Health. The healthcare industry will start to merge, and the lines across stakeholders will blur very quickly, adds Dr. Wolfgang Lippert of Salesforce.coms Healthcare and Life Sciences Industry Business Unit. Payors will become increasingly like providers in offering interventions and home care, and increasingly like pharma in analyzing data and pressure-testing value, he predicts.
For pharma companies, it will not be enough to accept that they wont continue to fully control their product data. To access real-world data from many sources, they will also need to provide others with more access to their own trial data and to collaborate as appropriate. As Neeraj Mohan of Blackstone Group says, Pharma companies may think they need to keep their data secure, but not being transparent about clinical trials will in fact put them at a perilous disadvantage in front of patient groups and, eventually, regulators.
Reimagine pharma players as solutions companies, not asset companies
As healthcare start-ups and technology giants move into what was traditionally the pharmaceutical domain, pharma companies will need to revamp their value propositions significantly. Dr. Krishna Yeshwant of Google Ventures pinpoints the challenge in this potential future: For pharma, there comes the question of whether they can tie digital to the assets they have. There is an interesting broader conversation to have with pharmacos about moving from a products-and-pills company to a solutions company. The associate director of US medical affairs at one global pharma company agrees, adding, One of the most exciting values of digital to the pharmaceutical industry is how technology may be able to supplement or support pharmacological therapies to more effectively address the problem of suboptimal outcomes.
The DiovanProteus chip combination for hypertension, mentioned earlier, is one example. Another comes from Google and its partnerships with DexCom, Novartis, and Sanofi to combat diabetes. Among the approaches is uploading glucose and insulin levels to the cloud in real time through contact lenses (worn by the patient) that measure glucose levels in tears; a bandage-sized sensor sends the data to the cloud. This technology can greatly improve the quality of diabetic care and help prevent complications through the real-time detection of any aberrations in glucose and insulin levels, which would trigger the right type of medical attention.
Beyond partnering with technology players, if pharma companies provided solutions that combined different therapeutics from different manufacturers, they could also add an enormous amount of value. In oncology, there is a growing movement to combine novel immune and targeted therapies with market-leader PD-1s from Merck and BMS.
To develop the most promising combinations efficiently, these pharma companies need to access and share early data and improve their digital infrastructure to manage complex trials and submissions jointly. If intercompany combos are to move beyond HIV and oncology, pharma companies must realize that they themselves, and not only patients, can benefit from partnering and combo solutions. For example, they can mitigate the risk and cost of clinical trials for combo therapies and leverage the strengths of each partner for what it does best.
Chris Geissler and Sanjay Mathur of Silicon Valley Data Science stated the case for reimagining pharma companies in even stronger terms: they say it could actually make the difference between success and failure. Big Pharma, they add, may be doomed to fail unless it transforms itself, and what such a transformation looks like is an open question that depends on several factors. For instance, Mathur argues that pharma companies will have to build trust and form personal relationships with the consumer. Such a transformation may be difficult for big pharma companies mired in traditional approaches and legacy organizational structures. These companies would not be able to compete effectively with nimble, small to midsize rivals that have nothing to lose. Change and survive or be acquired, says Mathur.
Finally, certain disease states are ripe for the introduction of comprehensive solutions or systems. Diabetes, which affects 387 million people around the world and consumes one in nine ($612 billion) US healthcare dollars today,4 is an area ready for an end-to-end solution.
As pharma companies shape their purpose and future direction, the insights from our interviewees suggest that fundamental change is needed. Companies must redefine the space they play in. They must get more specific information about their customers to identify the solutions and experiencesnot just the products and drugsthose customers really need. They also have to understand precisely how such solutions will capture the most value. Then they will need to reconfigure their organizations to capture this value and realize their new approach to the business.
Technology is ready, but pharma companies must change to enable and harness it
Our interviewees agreed that technology itself is not what hinders the pharma companies full-scale adoption of digital health technology. Lots of people say there are technical challenges to integrating different medical-record systems, but I dont think thats true, says Dr. Krishna Yeshwant of Google Ventures. I struggle to see what the tactical limitations are from an IT perspective.
That said, new technology often faces strong organizational barriers, such as mind-sets that resist IT change and conservative cultures that base decisions on perceived risks. These cultures often lack compelling incentives that reward employees for behaving in new ways by moving beyond the core. Their business structures discourage risk sharing among stakeholders. The performance metrics of most pharma companies connect directly with the bottom line and the current P&L, not with innovation, customer engagement, and future strategy.
As a result, these companies generally try new approaches or technologies only when they see their peers doing so. Most of the digital leaders we interviewed, like Kara Dennis, managing director of Medidatas mHealth unit, believe that every one of the required technologies exists or is almost there and largely good enough. The challenge is in pulling the new technologies and processes together for an integrated clinical trial, and this will require life-science companies to remove organizational barriers to change.
Take data transparency and data aggregation, for example. Multiple third-party players are aggregating health data and making the data and insights available to providers and payors. If I were a life-science company, I would want to know what the story about my drug is going to be before its told by others, says Dr. Amy Abernethy of Flatiron Health. I would want to know what adverse events there are before others surface this for me. With constant monitoring, you will find a lot of signals, and you will need to learn how to handle these signals with respect to reporting to the Food and Drug Administration. But this is not a reason to stick your head in the sand; this is how drug development is going to be done in the 21st century, Dr. Abernethy predicts. A director at a top 20 pharma company adds, Theres a lot of alarm around utilizing social-media data for fear of discovering adverse events. Ignorance is not an excuse. A company like ours would like to be responsible for understanding what is being said.
Many companies come at this issue backward, according to Sanjay Mathur of Silicon Valley Data Science. The story should be about the technology secondnot first, he says. Companies are so consumed with what technology to use they forget that the most important thing, to start with, is to ask the right questions. You dont need real-time insight if you dont have a place for real-time action.
Pharmaceutical companies must also determine what they will need to uncover distinctive insights. These insights will drive their technology strategy, which will help them to integrate vast amounts of data from disparate sources and to use analytics or other tools that support the entire business.
Three fundamental shifts
To achieve all of these goals, pharma companies must fundamentally shift their mind-sets, cultures, and capabilities. Only then can they transform themselves into the agile, experimentally minded solutions providers they need to be. The themes emerging from our interviews suggest strongly that companies must make three strategic shifts to succeed:
	Go beyond the pack mentality by embracing experimentation and risk.Pharma companies must now meet the consumers higher expectations, which stem from their experiences with other industries. We have seen significant evolution in the consumer-electronics space, says Dr. Krishna Yeshwant of Google Ventures. Now if we turn to the medical-software and device space, we can push more evolutionfor example, user-friendly devices or user interfaces. Users of pharmaco products are comparing them with those of the best consumer-electronics brands. Thats the new standard.
A lack of risk appetite appears to thwart this evolution. There is a strong pack mentality. Organizations dont change unless they see everyone else change at the same time, says Dan Goldsmith of Veeva Systems. This has resulted in slow advances and a lack of innovation across the industry for years. In essence, pharma wants to be in control and avoid the risk of standing out. Now, despite the fact that patients are taking back control over their own health, How many pharmacos do you see out there engaging with patients? he asks.
Some interviewees feel that there will be action if experimentation takes place in the right place and is both encouraged and rewarded. Today, different departments in pharma companies have different appetites for radical novelty, says Johan Grahnen, formerly the principal data scientist at Ayasdi, an advanced-analytics company specializing in machine intelligence. It is difficult to encourage experimentation in departments that are driven by compliance. Strong leadership buy-in and support is required to set a unified vision, he adds.
	Embrace a collaborative culture and challenge barriers to sharing. A collaborative approach is necessary if pharma companies are going to stay ahead of healthcare digitization. Significantly, some have already recognized the need to stimulate, connect, and support innovative ideas across business units and geographies. It is critical to have grass-roots experimentation, says Bruno Villetelle, chief digital officer at Takeda Pharmaceuticals. We set up an internal digital accelerator and innovation fund to stimulate this, and we run a regular Dragons Den competition to identify and fund development and pilots for the best ideas. The competition helps us avoid waste and bring speed, focus, and energy into digital innovation. When a pilot proves its value, we stand ready to put in the resources to scale the idea up quickly to the rest of the enterprise.
As we mentioned earlier, pharma companies should also recognize that they must contribute data if they want to see what data others have. However, as Sanjay Mathur and Chris Geissler admit, no real mechanism or incentives currently exist to foster this kind of sharing behavior.
Inder Singh, CEO of Kinsa, suggests another requirement. Pharma companies must reimagine their legal and compliance organizations to work more closely with regulators as companies creatively think about how to enable new business-model innovation, Singh says. Health information is highly regulated, and the regulatory context has not always kept up with the pace of innovation. Pharmaceuticals will need to actively work with regulators to find a path forward.
Kristy Junio, senior director of Healthcare & Life Sciences for Oracle Marketing Cloud Industry Solutions, argues that pharma companies need to build novel, trust-based personal relationships with consumers. These ties replicate the experience and trust that providers were able to build with patients. Technology, she says, is one way to create this bondfor example, by providing patients with more personalized information about their health and treatment.
Finally, pharma companies have a choice between developing digital solutions in-house or through partnerships. Some of our interview subjects, including Dr. Todd Johnson of Noble.MD, believe it would be better for these companies to partner with third-party technology providers through innovation funds or joint ventures. With pharmacos solutions often offered and marketed in providers offices, third-party partners offer more objective, unbiased representation, Johnson observes. He believes that objectivity and a lack of bias are critical for providers to build relationships of trust with their patients.
	Reinvent companies by building nontraditional capabilities and embedding them in new operating models. Attracting, engaging, and delighting consumers requires a deep understanding of how to deliver a customer experiencefar beyond just selling a product, pill, or diagnostic test. The problem is that most healthcare innovation gets smothered in preference for something that drives the bottom line immediately, says Aimee Jungman, who has worked at companies including Frog Design, Genomic Health, and Pfizer. Theres a lack of commitment to building something new, which could disrupt current cash flows, and something lasting, for the patient and physician to improve care, she says. Neither of these aims will be realized unless pharma companies build new capabilities and revitalize their existing business and operating models to foster greater experimentation and bolder strategies.
Going from selling products to selling digital solutions demands completely new processes and ways of working. As Dan Goldsmith of Veeva Systems says, In some ways, it is easier to talk about the technology, data, and analytics aspects of the digital revolution. But the harder question is, really, what are the fundamental organizational changes that will need to occur? With great advances in technology over the past five years, technology change is the easy part.
Our conversations and client experience reveal a widespread perception that C-suite executives have not fully embraced digital. Their incentives typically reward them for taking a wait and see approach, which can stifle innovation and hinder change across the organization.
Nevertheless, virtually all of the thought leaders agreed that pharmas old model must change and new blood must enter the system. The good news is that they see some pharma companies starting to value nontraditional skill setshiring marketers from other industries, such as retail, and building strategic relationships with creative agencies.
Dr. Amy Abernethy of Flatiron Health says that pharma companies need to double down on talent that truly understands science and health data. Some examples? People like clinical informaticists who know how to work with electronic health-record data, clinicians who understand the science and didnt just drop out of academia, or data scientists who arent just the IT guys in the basement but are business partners with the senior leaders. Whether pharma companies choose M&A, strategic partnerships, or organic incubation and experimentation, they must find a way to adapt and evolve quickly. If they dont, third-party players more willing to take risks, chart the course, and listen to consumers could supersede them.
________________________________________
The digitization of healthcare, even in the early stages, is having a real impact on how not only doctors but also patients manage those patients health and how pharma companies need to do business. Digital innovation still faces challenges, such as the lack of clarity about who pays for digital solutions, but digital and data analytics should certainly be high on the C-suite agenda. Pharma companies that want to keep upor move aheadmust be bold and adopt an act-now mentality. They must build innovative business models, invest in new capabilities, and transform their organizational cultures.


MED:

Difference Between Pharmaceutical and Medical Sales
Thinking about making a transition into the healthcare sales field? One of the questions that we hear a lot of candidates is What is the Difference Between Pharmaceutical and Medical Sales? Note that there are always exceptions to the below and the information in this article is certainly not meant to serve as the end all in your research. Rather the goal here is to shed some light on the two types of sales and how they typically differ as you begin looking at new opportunities.
Pharmaceutical Sales
Detailing
Detailing begins by initiating dialogue with a physician  you sell your product in terms of its efficacy and benefits to the doctor and patient and then close for the business, that is a commitment you write a script for patients.
Market Share Driven # of Scripts
Most companies base their reps goals around increase in market share or # of scripts written.
Typically Team Selling
Especially with larger pharmaceutical companies, reps are given a territory and have 2 to 5 people per team. This means that all of the reps may have some crossover and are calling on the same physicians. With this in mind, the bonus or payout is often based on the whole team meeting their goal. This type of sale can be a great fit for someone that thrives in a truly team based environment.
Note: Keep in mind that there are always exceptions to the above. For example, many specialty positions allow you to have your own territory in contrast to being on a team. The same goes from smaller pharmaceutical companies that are looking to penetrate the market.
High Base Salary
Most pharmaceutical companies do provide their reps with a higher base salary,in comparison to some of the medical companies. This is one of the biggest challenges that reps face when they decide to transition into a medical sale. Mentally, it feels strange for anyone to transition into a sales opportunity where the base is likely to be lower.
Quarterly Bonuses
Most incentive payouts are on a quarterly basis in contract to a monthly commission structure. Again there are always exceptions
Medical Sales
Revenue/unit Driven
Medical sales reps typically strive to drive units or revenue in their territory.
Closing the Sale
This is probably the biggest difference between pharmaceutical and medical sales. In Medical sales, there is a true close, signing of the deal.
Individual Territory
Reps in medical sales typically do not crossover into other reps territories. Where there is one territory, there is usually only one rep.
Monthly Commission Payout
Commissions are typically paid out on a monthly basis.
Lower Base, Higher Commission Payout
While your base may seem less than in pharmaceutical sales, usually the upside is fairly high.
As you can see from above, there are major differences between these two types of sales. Wed like to address the misconception that medical companies like to hire candidates that have pharmaceutical experience. While that may be the case with some companies, that is not necessarily the norm.


MED:
What is the difference between a Medical Device and Pharma Rep?
	Published on September 7, 2016

Dan Golka
FollowDan Golka
CMO at Med Tech Directory
What is the difference between a Medical Device and a Pharma Rep? We have done some research between the two job descriptions and basic salary comparisons for you.
Pharmaceutical Sales
Pharmaceutical sales reps are usually responsible for visiting doctors' offices, hospitals, clinics, pharmacists, nursing homes, and other healthcare facilities with the goal of selling prescription drugs. This is also known as drug detailing, your job as a pharma sales rep is to detail the pharmaceutical indications of a specific drug/medication and hope that the doctor will remember and prescribe your drug to his next patient.  In rare cases, you may actually be introducing a new drug therapy altogether with no competitive equivalent.
Youll need to be able to sell the doctor on the drug itself and describe the distinct advantages of using it for specific applications while comparing it to alternatives (competitive drugs, generic drugs, etc.).  Ultimately, you are trying to gain a commitment that the Physician will prescribe a product. Technically, you dont make a sale until the doctor prescribes your drug.
The average specialty pharma sales salary is $138,150, with an average base of $90,862.
Medical Device Sales
Medical device sales involves selling a medical device product that is either used by a physician or the physicians staff during a procedure with a patient and does not require a prescription.  Medical sales representatives are often responsible for a set territory in which they may serve as either inside or outside sales representatives. This is a sophisticated sales process. Doctors are often given product demonstrations, installations, and application support. This could be a cardiac device, surgical, diabetic or any other medical device used by a hospital, doctor or clinic for his use in surgery or as simple as selling tongue suppressors.
Medical devices are products that require a PO (purchase order), price, quantity, and any terms of purchase.  Additionally, you dont need to wait and hope for a doctor to write a prescription to officially make a sale; you can leave a doctors office or hospital with a written order, unlike pharmaceutical sales. The pay is rewarding and can come with many perks.
The average medical sales rep salary is $145,147, with an average base of $88,038.
The Med Tech Directory got to speak with a very Talented Writer, Robyn Melhuish from Med Reps. She was a wealth of knowledge on this subject and gave us the Medical Sales Salary Report for reference. http://bit.ly/2ckYBCA
Have a great week. Join the Med Tech Directory today for the latest news on medical devices, conferences, funding and employment.
Dan Golka


MED;
Pharma, Biotech, Medical-Device Sales: Which Is for You?
	Tweet
	Share4
6 Comments

Megan Malugani / Monster Contribuing Writer
Salespeoples roles in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical-device industries are closely related, but there are some key differences in what each of the three types of sales jobs entails, as well as in the skills and personalities necessary to succeed.
From differing levels of technical know-how to varying degrees of on-the-job autonomy, heres what to keep in mind before targeting one of the areas as a prospective salesperson.
Breaking into the Field
Featured Articles:
	Back to School Guide for Healthcare Students 
	Refresher Programs Help Nurses Return to Work 
	What It Takes to Get into Pharmacy School 
Although it is tough to get a sales job in any of the three areas, the pharmaceutical industry is typically a little easier to penetrate than biotech or medical devices, says Kerrie Espuga, who worked in pharmaceutical sales for 13 years before becoming managing director of New York City corporate training firm Corporate Trendsetters in 2008. Thats because the pharmaceutical industry is bigger and generally employs more salespeople. Another reason is that the level of technological and scientific savvy required to be a top-notch salesperson is generally lowest for pharma, a little higher for biotech (which requires a thorough understanding of research using genetic engineering technology) and extremely high for medical devices.
When I was a sales manager conducting interviews for a pharmaceutical company, a candidate could have sold copiers for two years and could get the sales job if he had an excellent track record, Espuga says. Not so with biotech. Sometimes biotech mandates some kind of medical background or previous experience selling within the healthcare industry, she says. Thats because biotech is a little more scientific, a little more technical, she notes.
Selling medical devices is even more complex than selling pharma or biotech products, according to Gil Carrara, MD, a partner in the biotechnology and healthcare practice at Battalia Winston Amrop, an executive search firm in New York City. Many times a device person will go right into the OR and work with the surgeons, Carrara says. They conduct simulations related to using the product, for example. You have to understand everything about the product, he says. Thats why [medical-device salespeople] are usually PhDs or engineers.
Interestingly, sometimes employers recruiting medical-device sales reps reject people with pharma experience, because selling medical devices requires a much more direct approach than the more marketing-oriented approach pharma reps typically use, Espuga notes.
Choosing a Corporate Culture
The corporate cultures of pharmaceutical and biotech companies also differ. With a long history, the pharmaceutical industry is large and well-established. Biotech is a newer industry, poised for growth.


MED:
Medical Device Sales Requires More Than a Pharmaceutical-Style Sales Call
by Mace Horoff  Blog, Communicating value  2 Comments
By the Way, So Does Pharmaceutical Sales!
As someone who spends a lot of time providing medical sales training, Im all too familiar with pharmaceutical sales reps who use the detailing sales model to sell (I use the word sell with hesitation). Whats sad are the number of medical device sales representatives using the same approach.
 Attempting to sell to healthcare professionals by detailing is amateurish and ineffective.
What is the pharmaceutical detail model Im referring to? Its when pharmaceutical reps get in front of a doctor and spew all the details of the drug theyre selling in one minute or less.
Pharma reps do this for many reasons. One reason is because its the way theyre taught. Another reason is because of perceived time pressure.  They know if they spend longer than a minute reciting their canned sales presentation, the doctor will become irritated. Pharma reps sense that most doctors dont want to listen to their spiel anyway. After all, thats why pharmaceutical reps resort to focusing on delivering lunches and free samplesactivities that often garner a minute of a busy doctors time.
Selling this way makes a sales representative little more than a walking, talking brochure (who again, often brings lunch). Brochures are boring. Most pharma reps are boring. Boring doesnt sell well because boring does not convey value.
When Medical Device Sales Representatives Sell Like Boring Pharma Reps?
The reasons medical sales professionals resort to detailing tactics are similar. They sense time pressure and want to be brief. Many lack  medical sales skills, so they just recite features and benefits and whatever they think might stick. Their sales planning consists of reading over a product brochure and adding a dose of hope instead of strategic planning and a targeted sales approach.
What really blows me away is the frequency with which I encounter medical device reps who say something along the lines of, Selling my product is more like a pharmaceutical sale. Our goal is to get the doctor to write a prescription. We get in, tell our story and get out. Again, sounds more like hope than gaining commitment. By the way, does the doctor get to talk?
When you barge in, dump data and run out, youre not delivering value; youre delivering an interruptionone that doesnt serve your end goal very well.
Value Selling Requires a Conversation  NOT Detailing!
Imagine youre a doctor or other healthcare professional. What is the value of a salesperson? No, its not someone who shows you products and services in case you should ever need them.
A salesperson provides value when helping customers to identify hidden problems or recognize unseen opportunities. Of course, the salesperson is compensated when he or she can strategically position a product to solve said problem or leverage said opportunity.
Real selling requires a conversationoh yeah, and something else: Listening! Its not about the salesperson doing all the talking. Its about asking the right questions and getting customers to reveal their thoughts, needs, goals, and concerns. Without clearly identifying and validating these areas, detailing or spewing data, features and benefits is a waste of time. And its freakin boring!
Did you ever notice when someone engages you in a conversation about something you want to talk about you dont feel the urge to rush away? If youre receiving valuable insight and information, do you want to talk more and know more?  Im sure every pharmaceutical sales rep would answer these questions with a resounding yes, yet most sell using a model that delivers the opposite. Its nuts!
A good share of the medical device hiring managers I meet toss resumes that say Pharmaceutical Sales Representative. Its because they consider pharmaceutical reps to be little more than sample drop-off people (and food deliverers). They have a perception that pharmaceutical sales people dont actually sell. Yet, theyre unaware of similar behavior in their own ranks.
If You Feel Like You Need to Detail, Dont Make the Call
Sales reps are grateful for whatever time a doctor gives them. They try to make the presentation fit the time. Thats not always a good decision. If what you sell is valuable; if it makes a significant difference in how a healthcare provider delivers care and it improves patient outcomes, its worth more than a one minute data dump. You cheapen yourself and your product when you try to sell this way.
What should you do when a customer says he only has a minute? Sell the customer on the value of spending five minutes with you, or 15even 30. Dont think its possible? It is if you can describe in tangible terms what the customer will get out of spending the time with you. It doesnt matter if youre selling pacemakers or aspirin.
If you dont believe its worth the doctors time to spend more than a minute with you, why should he?
If you want to deliver food, get a job driving for Dominos. If you want to sell medical devices, or pharmaceuticals for that matter, learn how to have an engaging and compelling sales conversation that delivers value.
By the way, if I offended yougood. Now fix it.


MED:
Lab Sales vs. Pharma
Discussion in 'Laboratory/Diagnostic Sales General Discussion' started by Anonymous, Apr 19, 2013 at 10:11 AM.
Tags: Add Tags
1.	#1Anonymous, Apr 19, 2013 at 10:11 AM
 
AnonymousGuest
Can someone please explain differences between lab and pharma reps. Currently a pharma rep. Not sure exactly what is involved in lab sales. Are most lab reps content? What about job security between the 2? Also, how much computer/paperwork involved in the evenings?
Quote
2.	#2Anonymous, Apr 19, 2013 at 10:43 AM
 
AnonymousGuest
Lab Sales are much different. We don't sale one product, we sale a service.
Quote
3.	#3Anonymous, Apr 19, 2013 at 1:11 PM
 
AnonymousGuest
Thanks. Is it much more difficult or stressful than pharma? Is there lots of computer/paperwork to do in the evenings? What are realistic bonuses like for a big company?
Quote
4.	#4Anonymous, Apr 20, 2013 at 9:30 AM
 
AnonymousGuest
never did pharma sales but i have been told to never, ever take a job with randox. that company is from oversees and likes to target unknowing people with no knowledge of lab sales. they do this because their reputation is horrible. the company is ot respected, the people do not pride themselves on reputation. so whatever the differences are stay away from randox, tell your friends and coworkers the same thing, and tell any lab manager you meet to stop using any products from this company as soon as possible.
Quote
5.	#5Anonymous, Apr 22, 2013 at 6:49 AM
 
AnonymousGuest
Anonymous said: ?
Thanks. Is it much more difficult or stressful than pharma? Is there lots of computer/paperwork to do in the evenings? What are realistic bonuses like for a big company?
Here is the deal. Lab sales especially Oncology and Pathology, used to be good. The pay scale was base 45-100K, Commission anywhere from 50-200+ per year. The problem is that the Pathology community and several Physician specialty types caught on. So the got greedy. All the companies popped up to help set-up POD labs. Then more and more Pathology Practices decided to build their own labs. Before you knew it there were more Pathology and CP labs then Pizza stores.
Then one day CMS woke up. They slammed hard, and came down on everyone. So the Legit labs have to pay the price for all the filth out there. Even some of the labs you would think were clean and legit became scum. What did not help was these software companies, that specifically were designed to help, Gastro, Uro and Endos do as many pathology procedures as possible and bilk insurance and Medicare for millions.

So what has happened is the income stream has begun to dry-up. The issue is the "good" labs cannot keep up with the crooked labs. So it has become really really competitive. If you work for a crooked lab they pay you a low base high commission, but fire your butt if you dont hit your numbers in 3 months. If you work for a good lab, high base good benefits medium commish, you just sit back and watch your business erode.

Now with the new payouts by Medicare (CMS) half of all the labs, especially the small Pathology and POD labs, especially the ones that biopsy a 9-year olds pimples just to make a buck will eventually fold.

So, now 70-80% of the reps have taken HUGE HITS in their pay. 

The point of all this is that this is a very stressful job in a very stressful environment. When the $$$ was = or greater than the stress it was a great job, now the stress is so much higher than the $$$ that it really is not worth it anymore. 

You need to decide for yourself based on the above.


Med:
Medicine is an ever-evolving field. New breakthroughs are being made all the time, but there are some discoveries that will always stand out as changing human thinking forever. Thanks to medicine, diseases have been eradicated, babies have been created and illnesses that used to be serious are now relatively mild. So, be grateful for living in the 21st century as we take a look at the Top 10 Most Important Medical Discoveries.
 
10. Anesthetic

If youve ever visited a museum of naval history, you will inevitably have come across a display that shows how they used to do surgical procedures on board ships in the 1800s. Amputations were done on a table, with the injured man biting on a piece of wood to stop from screaming. You probably shuddered then and are probably shuddering now.
Fortunately, the late 19th century saw the discovery of anesthetia, which numbs all sensation in the patient. An early anaesthetic was cocaine, first isolated by Karl Koller. It was an effective numbing agent, but as we now know it is also addictive and open to abuse. Around the same time, chloroform was also being used to numb pain (as demonstrated by John Snow during one of Queen Victorias births), but this too had potentially lethal side-effects. Luckily, todays anesthetics are both effective and safe.
 
9. Birth Control
Another huge difference that occurred in the late 19th century was the drop in birth rate as people started choosing to have smaller families. In the UK, for instance, the birth rate was 35.5 births per 1,000 people in 1870 and was down to 29 per 1,000 in 1900. This was, in part, due to better education about sex and reproduction but it was also due to better methods of birth control.
In the US, the birth control movement started a few years later, when a group of radicals, led by Emma Goodman (above), decided to start educating their fellow women about contraception to try and control the number of unwanted pregnancies. Their campaign was eventually successful and the Planned Parenthood Federation of America was formed in 1942. Birth control remains unpopular with some religious groups, but it has had a profound and undeniable social effect.
 
8. MMR

Another controversial one now, with the combined vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella. It was licensed in 1971, by Maurice Hilleman and immediately had a significant effect on the number of measles cases reported, with hundreds of thousands in the US during the 1960s (1966 saw 450,000) reduced to thousands by the 1980s.
The controversy occurred much later, in 1998, when Andrew Wakefield was paid by lawyers to find a way to discredit the MMR. He did this effectively, by publishing a paper claiming that there was a link between the MMR vaccine and autism. The research has since been entirely discredited, but the effects on vaccination rates was devastating, with the officially eliminated disease reoccurring in the US. Similarly, in the UK the number of measles cases had dropped to 56 in 1998 and was up to 1348 in 2008. There is also an epidemic in the UK in 2013, largely around Wales. MMR rates are now increasing again, thanks to emergency vaccination programs and it can be safely said that the MMR is a significant medical breakthrough.
 
7. X-Ray

A medical procedure that is now so common that we take it for granted, the X-Ray was discovered by accident. Its inventor was Wilhelm Conrad Rntgen and on 8 Nov, 1895 he discovered that his cathode ray tube could produce some unusual images. A week later, he x-rayed his wifes hand and the resulting image was close to our modern x-rays  her bones and wedding ring were clearly visible, but flesh was not. He named it X-ray as the x stood for unknown, but they are occasionally known as Rntgen rays in his native Germany. He was awarded the first Nobel Prize in 1901 and his invention continues to be used in hospitals everywhere.
 
6. Insulin

Another breakthrough that is used on a daily basis by diabetics, insulin is the life-saving hormone that keeps our blood sugars in check. Diabetics are either missing this hormone entirely (with type 1 diabetes) or produce it but not in a way their bodies can use (type 2). It was first isolated in 1921, by scientists from the University of Toronto, who were later awarded the Nobel Prize for their discovery. The following year, a 14-year-old called Leonard Thompson (above) became the first human to receive artificial insulin after coming close to a diabetic coma. He rallied after his second dose (the first was found to be impure) and lived another 13 years.
Its hard to imagine, given that diabetics can now live very normal lives, but Type 1 Diabetes used to be a terminal disease. Apart from diet management, there was nothing that could be done to combat the disease. Nowadays, it still isnt curable but is manageable thanks to insulin  just as well, given that obesity rates are rising, and diabetes rates with them. Insulin could become the most useful drug in the world


MED:
10 Health Advances That Changed the World
	BY DAN CHILDS,
	SUSAN KANSAGRA,
	M.D.
	ABC NEWS MEDICAL UNIT
Sept. 20, 2007
	
	
	
	
	Email
Whether it's the technology that allows us to peer deep into the body or medicines that extend the lives of those with chronic diseases, it's easy to see how advances in health and medicine have touched the lives of nearly every person on the planet.
Yet considering the ubiquitous nature of these developments, it is easy to see how many people take for granted the technologies and practices that, at one point or another, almost certainly saved their own lives or the lives of people they've loved.
The list below encompasses 10 advances in health and medical practices that have changed -- and in many ways continue to change -- the world today.
Vaccines
Throughout history, communicable diseases have had a tremendous impact on human history. So too, then, has the development of one of the most effective ways to defend against rampant viral infection -- vaccination.
Dr. Edward Jenner first introduced the idea of vaccinations in 1796, when he successfully prevented a young English boy from getting smallpox.
The concept of vaccination was propelled further by scientists such as Louis Pasteur, and in the modern era, when large groups of soldiers were successfully vaccinated in World War I and II against such diseases as tetanus, diphtheria and typhus.
"Polio vaccine is one that people think of because it had such an impact," said Dr. Jeffrey Baker, director of the history of medicine program at the Duke University School of Medicine.
But from the global health standpoint, Baker said Jenner's introduction of the smallpox vaccine may have had an even more significant impact in terms of lives saved.
Surgical Anesthetic and Antisepsis
Without a doubt, surgery used to be a much graver proposition than it is today. One of the chief reasons for this is that before the middle of the 19th century, anesthetic simply wasn't an option.
That changed Oct. 16, 1846, when William T.G. Morton demonstrated the mysterious wonder of ether -- a substance powerful enough to dull the pain and agony that had long been associated with surgery.
But while anesthetic was a great advance in and of itself, another advance that occurred at roughly the same time may have been even more beneficial -- antisepsis, or the creation of a sterile surgical environment.
"Anesthetic made it possible to operate on a patient without pain," Baker notes, "but without antisepsis they'd die anyway."
Clean Water and Improved Sanitation
Put them beside surgical advances and other cutting-edge technologies, and public health measures don't look so sexy. But the fact is that clean water and sanitation have likely saved millions -- perhaps billions -- of lives since they were widely implemented in the 19th and 20th centuries.
"It's something that's so important around the world and in America," Baker said. "It used to be that 15 percent of infants would die, and the biggest reason for this was diarrhea brought about by unclean water and milk."
Clean water and public health measures dramatically cut down the incidence of such deadly water-borne diseases as cholera and improved sanitation, drastically lowering the health impacts of parasitic infections and other health conditions related to the environment.
Antibiotics and Antivirals
As with vaccination, the advent of antibiotics hailed a new era in the treatment of communicable disease.
Interesting, then, that the concept of antibiotics may have been uncovered accidentally. In 1928, Sir Alexander Fleming left a petri dish of Staphylococci bacteria uncovered and later noted that the bacteria had been killed by a mold.
Upon further studying the mold, he discovered it was from a family called Penicillium notatum. Others soon saw the potential uses of what later came to be known as penicillin.
Today, antibiotics are used to treat a plethora of bacterial illnesses. And today, researchers are developing antivirals -- most notably, the AIDS-fighting antiviral AZT -- to deal with a host of viral illnesses as well.
The Birth Control Pill
Arguably, few developments have had as profound a social impact as the introduction of the birth control pill -- though its path to widespread use has been a rocky one.
Although the Federal Drug Administration approved contraception as safe in the early 1960s, it only became legal for married couples in 1965 and for unmarried couples in 1972.
But because of the Pill, countless women have been given control over their own fertility -- a concept that created a social revolution.
"Thinking about how it has transformed women's lives, in terms of family planning and the entry of women into the work force, its impact has been significant indeed," Baker said. "It was the first-ever lifestyle drug. It's not treating a disease, but it was making life better for women."
Improvements in Heart Surgery and Cardiac Care
Heart disease remains at the top of the list of the country's killers. Despite this, numerous important advances in its treatment have made a considerable impact, extending and improving the lives of its sufferers.
Not the least of these advancements is surgeons' ability to operate on and repair the heart -- without putting the patient at an unreasonable amount of risk.
"Maybe the breakthrough moment was the rise of the heart-lung bypass, which made it possible to operate on the heart for more than just a few minutes at a time," Baker said. "This was followed by coronary artery bypass grafting, which is, I believe, a most important procedure."
Randomized Controlled Trials
Another development largely unnoticed by the public at large, the advent of the randomized controlled trial -- what many refer to as the gold standard of medical research -- gave medical researchers an important tool in determining which treatments work, and which do not.
Randomized trials are conducted by dividing patient populations into two groups, where one group receives the intervention to be studied while the other does not. Examining the differences between groups in these types of trials has ushered in an era of evidence-based medicine that continues to guide clinical practice on a daily basis.
"I think this is huge," Baker said. "This is really what's changed how we deal with cancer and lots of other disease, too. In the future we'll look back at this as a huge step forward."
Radiologic Imaging
Before the development of radiologic imaging technologies, beginning with the use of the X-ray, doctors were usually relegated to looking only for external signs of injury or damage.
Today, the ability to peer inside the body and determine the cause, extent, or presence of disease has revolutionized the very way medicine operates and has saved countless lives in the process.
Much of the initial work surrounding the discovery of X-rays was done by Roentgen, a German physicist in the late 1800s. Initially, they were viewed as an invasion of privacy rather than a life-saving tool.
Its utility was soon realized, however, and many additional imaging technologies eventually followed.
"CT scans didn't come into the picture until the 1970s," Baker said, adding that this technology was brought to us by the company BMI -- the same BMI which had previously made a fortune off the British band known as the Beatles.
Advancements in Childbirth
Up until the middle of the 20th century in the United States, childbirth was considered to be the most feared part of a woman's life.
"Go into any old graveyard, and you always see a number of women who died in their 20s," Baker said. "That was in a large part due to childbirth."
With the advent of techniques in anesthesia, cesarean section, and forceps delivery, the chances of a successful have pregnancy improved, at least in developed countries. Unfortunately, many resource-poor societies around the world still lag behind in this arena.
Organ Transplantation
Few surgical interventions today carry as much complexity -- or as much ethical significance -- as organ transplantation.
"It's such a technically complex intervention that it's an amazing thing that it can even be done," Baker said. "It ties together both surgery and immunology."
The first successful transplant operation, which took place in 1954, removed a kidney from one donor and installed it in the body of his identical twin. Other organ transplants followed, including the first liver transplant in 1967 and the first heart transplant in 1968.
Today, there are more than 90,000 people awaiting a transplant in the United States alone -- a situation that also reveals the moral considerations that come entwined with such techniques.
"It represented an important turning point in the field of medical ethics," Baker said. "It really challenged physicians' ethic of 'first, do no harm.'"
What's Next?
Considering the progress that has been made in years past, it is tempting to view the state of health and medicine today as an endpoint.
"Medicine has made it possible to deal with many conditions," Baker said. "Our lives are longer. Still, we have to say in all honesty that our control over chronic diseases is somewhat mixed."
Additional research into how best to stave off these conditions -- even by delving into the secrets of the human genome -- could represent the next hopeful steps toward healthier, longer lives.
"In the future, I think we will begin to see more and more applications from genomic medicine, which will help us identify individuals at risk for chronic diseases and allow us to intervene earlier," Baker said.

